what did you think of the whole wmd
angle there of all the CIA people
working on some aspect of Iraq I only
met one she was a mid-level analyst she
was the only one who really believed
that the Iraqis had wmd this was passed
down to the CIA by the White House the
White House said the position is there's
wmd and that's why we're going to do
this based on what you guys are the ones
who were supposed to decide that or
figure that out yeah I remember a
knockdown drag out fight between the CIA
wmd analysts and the department of
energy wmd analysts and the department
of energy they were like there's wmd we
got to stop I'm wait and the CI is like
we're not seeing it we're not seeing any
wmd what's up guys if you haven't
already please smash that subscribe
button and hit that like button on the
video and if you don't have time to
watch this episode right now I'd really
appreciate it if you saved it to your
watch later playlist on YouTube finally
if you'd like to follow me on Instagram
or X those links are in my descript
deson
below John kiraku this is a this has
been a long time in the Mak talking
about having you in here I'm I'm glad to
finally get you here and I think it'll
be the first of many we do the pleasure
is all mine I've been looking forward to
this for a long time we'll have fun well
I actually remember so when when Danny
Jones first had you on the podcast that
was like the first major podcast I think
you had had done it was right in this
new era 2022 yes I remember cuz he was
up in Jersey with me at my parents house
at my old Studio
in May 2022 and he was finishing the
edit the episode and he kept uploading
it and it was automatically getting
demonetized so we
were we're like holy [__] the CIA is
coming after Danny and then we figured
out let's put it in three parts and then
it worked out and the rest is history
and now know that yeah that that was the
real story swear to God but in all
seriousness I think you've done three
with Danny as well as a fourth that was
with Andrew Buon or Danny and my mutual
friend who's been on our podcast a bunch
that podcast was excellent we had a
really good time and you know
beforehand we normally I I just sort of
wing these podcasts I don't really
prepare for them because I I figure
after all these years if I'm not an
expert by now I'm not ever going to be
an expert so I know what I want to say I
know how to say it I don't prepare I
started thinking a couple days in
advance should I prepare for this uh
Andy Bustamante thing and I thought nah
I'm not going to prepare and it went
very well I I thoroughly enjoyed that uh
that debate yeah he was here the day
before and we we had known that was
going to be coming or whatever because
Danny's been trying to make that happen
forever but we were talking about you
because obviously he hadn't met you
before and I told him I said you know
what I think you guys are going to end
up agreeing on a lot more than you think
and when you listen to that podcast
there's like 80% of it you guys are lock
step on very I felt like it was Danny
did a really good job of keeping it on
like high level broad strategic kind of
issues did yeah and that last 20%
obviously you guys have some huge
disagreements which is I think motivated
by your separate very separate
experiences I think that's exactly right
yes but would highly Rec we'll put that
podcast actually Link in description
because it so good and in fact I I said
to Danny before before he even turned
the camera on that I was a little bit
worried that we might end up agreeing on
too much and it wouldn't be interesting
no it was definitely interesting because
when guys like you and Andy even coming
at it from some different perspectives
when you have been out in the world in
the field doing things and I say the
same thing about all my special ops guys
that I've had in here and guys like that
it's not to say you're right about
everything and I should just agree with
what you say certainly not but there is
a level of respect from you know gdc's
like goddamn civilians in my seat where
it's like all right these guys have seen
these things so I have to understand
that like they have a greater view on
how [__] really works in the world and
it's very easy for me to sit here in my
armchair and say you should have done
this or or done that but it's not you
know the world is very very gray oh it
is very gray and you know I've met a lot
of these special ops guys whether it's
you know SEAL team members or Delta or
whomever and you can tell uh who the
real deal guys are and you can tell who
the phonies are oh yeah yeah I I think
I've told this story before I I was in
The Green Room at um Fox News I used to
go on the Tucker Carlson show a lot
Tucker Tucker's a good guy yeah and um I
was in The Green Room and there was a
guy in there who I didn't recognize and
uh and he said um who show you going on
because they do fox and Fox Business at
the same Studio okay so I said oh I'm
going to go on Tucker and he said oh
yeah me too you must be going on before
before I do and I said uh he said uh who
who uh do you for and I said oh I I'm on
cuz I used to work for the CIA it's a
long story yeah yeah and I don't know
who this guy is so I'm not going to
explain the whole background and nor nor
would he care right so I said how about
you he said oh yeah I'm CIA too and I
said oh I mean there's this immediate
thing when one CIA person meets another
one and you always ask the first
question who do you work for right uh I
said what division are you or what uh
what director are you in operations you
know it's operations intelligence
science technology and administration
and he said I'm an Ops I said oh yeah me
too what what division were you in and
that's that's the real question right
there because you can't fake that and he
says and listen the answers are you know
I was in counterterrorism I was in near
East I was in you know Russia Eurasia
whatever he goes I was in uh you know
wet work uh Black Ops special special
activities they don't say that right no
nobody ever said that's from straight
out of a
so I just said oh that's cool and then I
went in and did Tucker and we went to a
commercial and I said Tucker I think the
guy in The Green Room who's coming on
the show I think he's faking it and he's
like what do you mean I said he doesn't
know any of the Linko that a CIA person
should know he's faking it and he's like
oh [__] he goes I have to say something
to the to the producer oh I kind of
forgot about it and then a couple of
months later here's this guy in The
Washington Post he's arrested and
charged with mortgage fraud because he
went to the bank and said I need a
mortgage but I can't tell you where I
work it's a special lops wet work Black
Ops secret CIA and they're like oh
here's a mortgage and then he couldn't
pay it Matt Cox would say that's bad
fraud that's sloppy fraud that's sloppy
that's sloppy at least back it up that's
unbel unable that someone like that
would end up on a mainstream platform
though like no vetting like I worry
about that here cuz I'm an independent
guy what what you see so how much
research are you going to be able to do
exactly this is this is what you get but
I will say with the with the spec ops
guys I've had in and then we've only had
in we've had in you now and then your
story is very well documented and boo
Deon and like Jim Lawler as far as CIA
Go's great right so like I I really
check those out as much as I could ahead
of time but I remember even thinking the
first time with Boon before I knew him
because he had at the time he'd only
been on Danny's podcast and so Dany had
done some unbelievable podcasts with him
that did like really high views numers
but Danny wasn't a Clips guy so Andy for
some reason like wasn't viral yet I was
the clips guy so like there was like
kind of like we both then ended up kind
of sending him all over the place after
that but I remember looking into it cuz
I'm like what you know I'm I'm a
backward hat dude in my parents house
right now how the [__] can I figure this
out but to me there's no excuse if you
are like billion doll company exactly
like is listen Tucker had six producers
on his show you mean to tell me not one
single one of those producers could do a
little bit of vetting yeah wow it
doesn't now that I've seen it from the
other side though it doesn't surprise me
a ton like it at the time it's like of
course you just think these people have
it figured out but it's it's a weird
world because you guys do still come
from a place where yeah secrecy is the
norm right and some people are off
record I I had one guy in here where he
had some stuff off record and if other
guys had him vouched for him publicly
who were known people wouldn't have
believed it what's always strange to me
though maybe you would know about this
is when there are people like that guy
you talked about in the room who are who
are saying you know I was CIA or
something isn't there some sort of law
where like the CIA or someone
representing them comes out and denies
them there had been a law it was the it
was The Stolen Valor Act and it passed
about I don't know 12 13 14 years ago
and then the Supreme Court found it to
be unconstitutional it's not illegal to
lie about yourself right unless it for
the purpose is to defraud somebody and
in that case we already have fraud laws
on the books and so if you go around
saying you know I won the Purple Heart
and the bronze star uh no you didn't
well shame on you but it's not a crime
anymore that's CRA so so they don't they
don't have an incentive to come out and
stop it they're just like all right
whatever no no not at all when I was at
Deo and touch I went to to the
Consulting from to tou after I left the
CIA and so every time a CIA person
applied to the company and there there
were 40,000 employees at that company
back then they would ask me to take this
person out to dinner and just try to
feel them out and vet them so I remember
this one guy coming young guy very very
aggressive uh in a good way and um I
took him to dinner in DC and I said so
um so were you um di or do director of
intelligence or director of operations
and he goes I did all that [__] like
that all right Vinnie sit down it's like
wow buddy wrong
answer wrong answer and I don't think I
even stayed for the whole dinner I think
I told him I had to go and I called the
partner on the way home and said this
this isn't going to work you should have
had one of your Mobsters coming and say
I think with theong guy to say you
believe this
guy we'll get to that later for people
don't understand that's that's cool
though that they had you like obviously
you were very high up in the CIA we
we'll get to that with your story but so
deoe as a part of your job they were
also having you vet the guys coming in
can you check this guy out cuz he's
telling us some really amazing Stories
and we just don't know what to make of
it now here's here's another question
there this is interesting because it
gets into some of the
I guess like civil liberties and
constitutional type things that you now
are an extreme scholar on as a part of
your own story but I gotta be careful
how I say this because I don't want to I
don't want to give up stuff I'm not
supposed to give up
but I have one guy who was called in to
consult on an issue
for I what I would call a major company
this this is
probably I don't know five six years ago
maybe they're on their way right now
sounds like but anyway so he's called by
someone high up at this company that
says listen we just had an unprecedented
situation a pretty high-placed employee
in our company just walked into the
CEO's office he's been here a long time
and revealed to the CEO that he is in
the CIA and he has been put here to you
know monitor some of the international
deals that are being made you know
because they were a multinational
company and you know he now was given
permission to reveal himself or whatever
so that he could get more access to
something like that which part of the
part of the hold on a minute though here
this is going to get nuts part of the
whole like CIA thing is you can't spy on
your own citizens it's part of the
charter oh that's exactly right can't do
that so I see you shaking your head
there that's exactly what my guy did
when he heard this he's like and and
there's a process for this kind of yeah
he was like no way like this is [__]
whatever long story short I don't know
if the guy [__] up like the process of
how he supposed to do it but it was it
was legit it's 100% legit and my guy was
actually called in to consult on trying
to figure out how you know they were
going to make this work because they
determined that the and I don't know if
this is true but their best
determination was that the the
intentions here were actually not bad
but again they were looking at this like
you know we're not [__]
constitutional Scholars was this an
American company or foreign company in
America American company okay I I I have
a couple observations if I if I may um
there number one there's a process for
doing this there are a lot of CIA people
in American companies you don't say yeah
imagine um but the process for it is you
have to get the approval of the SE of
the CEO and the director of security uh
for a couple of reasons first of all are
the obvious legalities right you can't
spy on American citizens and the idea
isn't to spy so much is as it is as you
said to monitor the foreign activities
of the company so that you can gather
intelligence from foreign Nationals and
pass it back to CIA okay number one so
it has to be worked out with the CEO and
the director of security and usually the
board of directors has approved this
this cooperation plan in advance number
one number two if somebody's going to be
planted in a company unbeknownst to the
leadership of the company it almost
always is FBI agent not a CIA officer
yes and that that I've heard would scare
the crap out of me because you love the
FBI I know we're so close all of us all
the stories I could tell you about the
FBI we'll get there um but the point of
the FBI is to put you in prison that's
how they get promoted that's right right
they're not there to be you know have
coffee and uh and join in with the uh
with the the company's activities and
help them make money um
and number three and I'm my my brain
it's starting to leak out of my brain I
can't remember what I was going to say
oh yeah number three is payroll becomes
very very complicated because you you're
forbidden by law from collecting two
paychecks so if you're collecting a
paycheck from the CIA let's say you're a
gs14 officer you're collecting a
paycheck you're also collecting a
paycheck from the company you can't keep
the money from the company to the point
where there is a dedicated office at the
department of the treasury that will do
your taxes for you right and whatever
money you make from the company you have
to give back that's the whole point of
corporate
cover so that sounds like a heap of
trouble heap of trouble and one of the
questions while you were saying that
that I never asked that might be
interesting here because we we have a
real foggy area in the modern day
intelligence Community now with
contractors oh my God we have guys who
post 9911 forget it right so perhaps
this is someone who might have been
contracted who was a longtime maybe C
CIA guy who now isn't CIA but totally
still CIA that's entirely possible yeah
I'll tell you a lot of the a lot of the
small and medium-sized defense
contractors in the immediate post 911
era um had exactly that issue where
literally every single one of their
employees was a recently retired CIA
officer there was a there there's a a
company you know what just to be on the
safe side I'm not going to say the name
but there was a company that was set up
as an LLC in the late 1990s just for
these newly retired senior intelligence
service Executives to go and use as a
tax pass through and hang out and then
they joined the golf course and they
joined the country club and then lo and
behold they started making money oh yeah
and they end yeah they ended up hiring
250 people and they ended up selling to
one of the big you know Fortune 100 they
they made tens of millions of dollars
each and everybody lived happily ever
after we sure we sure they went Ever
After and didn't stay in the in the
present moment with that little sale
right there H by now they're all
Old-Timers okay I mean in my mind I'm
still 30 I'm actually 60 so they've got
to be you know 80 you're 60 I'm 60 God
damn John getting up there bro I know
right you look great though like appr
you look like you lost a lot of weight
too lost 115 lbs holy [__] you know it's
easy to get slow and fat and old and you
know you're comfortable just watching
reruns on DVR and and you got to you got
to nip that in the bud how'd you how'd
you lose all that weight you just start
like working out every day or um I I had
a really bad case of diabetes and so um
it's a kind of a long story there
there's an experimental surgery that a
that a Scottish uh physician stumbled on
by accident he had a he had a patient
with stomach cancer who also happened to
be a diabetic with uncontrolled diabetes
and for whatever reason my diabetes was
uncontrolled I was on literally the
maximum dosage of every diabetes
medication on the market plus four shots
of insulin a day and the doctor told me
you're going to die he told me I had
five years you're going to die if you
don't turn this around wow and I said
what do I do I don't know what to do and
he said well there's this experimental
surgery and because it's experimental
insurance won't pay for it it's going to
be out of pocket but anyway the surgeon
in in Scotland found that if you
physically remove a person's stomach for
reasons that they don't understand the
pancreas starts to produce insulin again
so you don't have a stomach no sir they
took it out you have no stomach no where
does your food go they created a a pouch
that holds 4 ounces of food out of my
intestine it's up here at the top so I
can only eat what you can hold in the
palm of your hand
I I eat about 1,200 calories a day I'm
full all the time like this you gave me
a a cup of coffee and black coffee and a
water and that's going to that's going
to do me until 8 or 9 o' tonight and
then I'll say but it has no calories I
know but it's going to fill me and then
I'm going to say at 9:00 you know I
haven't eaten since 7 this morning I
should probably eat something but then
as a result the weight melted off me you
know I used to wear this Dexcom right
here you could see it in the
podcast the diabetes just went away like
magic oh it's gone it's gone gone I
don't take any
medicine my I didn't know that was a
thing yeah my high blood pressure went
away high cholesterol high trigly
triglycerides and even my sleep apnea
went away no kidding yeah completely
turned my life around who it's pretty
good yeah but even like can you eat like
the feda cheese as a Greek and
everything without getting full I mean I
took my son to one of my sons to Greece
in uh in um
January where are your people from in
GRE uh rhs all four of my grandparents
came from rhs it's glorious there my
best friend all my life is the Sal Nikki
oh it's beautiful beautiful
city yeah s so I I'm a dual citizen too
as are my kids and uh I'm going back
next week as a matter of fact wow yeah I
love it there but anyway I couldn't I
couldn't really eat the food the the the
the changes that you have to make are
obvious but even now what am i 2 years
and 2 months posts surgery I can't eat
beef I can't eat lamb it's too heavy too
dense but do you feel good I feel
fantastic that's great yeah that's I'll
trade that all day I can run again I
haven't been able to run in years yeah
you were running when you were catching
abuzu beta I could barely run to the
bathroom a couple of years
ago all right well let let's let's get
into your actual story cuz I know I know
you've told it on on Danny Jones's
podcast you've been on dton fiser
podcast as well another good guy great
guy he's like right down the street here
too but you know you you were you were
not just any guy at the CIA you by the
end were were a very high level guy you
obviously quickly yeah well you made
your way to the directorate of
operations National Clandestine services
and and did a lot before that and and
actually what's interesting to me is you
know I I always ask different guys like
how they got recruited because the CIA
seems to have a lot of different modes
to do this and somehow they're able to
find people who match a very specific
psychological
footprint was was being a spy or working
in you know some sort of clandestine
type job something you had thought about
as a kid that you wanted to do or did
you kind of fall into this yes I thought
about it a lot as a kid as a little kid
um when I was when I was 11 years old I
remember my mom and dad took my brother
and sister and I to see our grandparents
they lived in a neighboring town and
when we got there my grandfather said
did you see the news they killed the CIA
guy in Athens that was Richard Welch the
CIA station Chief and I remember my
grandfather and my dad talking about it
like all afternoon that day and I was
fascinated by it I went to college
and and I I was close friends with a
woman named um Dimitra santis her we
went out one night and and when we came
home or we went back to her house she
had a message from her mom saying that
her father's brother had been
assassinated in Athens he was the US
defense atache so I used to think about
this kind of thing a lot like why are
they killing all these intelligence
people in Athens and um you know when I
was a little kid I I wanted
walkie-talkies and invisible ink pens
and stuff my parents always used to used
to humor me with these little spy
gadgets and stuff uh
little little uh microphones and you
know stuff that you get at the toy store
for 10 bucks and it's worthless but it's
fun and then I sort of put it out of my
head when I was in college I got a
Bachelor's degree in Middle Eastern
studies and then I was finishing a
master's degree in legislative affairs
with a focus on foreign policy analysis
thinking that I would either go into um
the Foreign Service at state department
or maybe do something on Capitol Hill or
lobbying or whatever
and then
um do you want the whole story please
yeah why you're here yeah that's true I
I had a professor in in college who was
one of the very few true Geniuses that
I've that I've ever encountered I think
what made him a genius to you he
had he had a bachelor's degree from
Harvard a master's degree from Yale a
PhD in Psychology from Yale a PhD in
political science from Yale and an MD
from Yale medical
school right the author the author of a
dozen books all on psychology and
Psychiatry and he was teaching a class
called the psychology of
leadership so this was this was my last
semester of graduate school maybe like
8788 something like that yeah this would
have been right this would have been the
spring of 88 that's right and and uh his
name was Dr Gerald
post uh you know I had seen him on TV a
bunch of times every time there'd be a
you know on the History Channel they
they would do these documentaries on
Hitler's final days or the end of the
Stalin era stuff like that and he would
always give interviews on these
documentaries so he was teaching this
class the psychology of leadership
absolutely fascinating class it
was why do leaders take the actions that
they do and then what historical impact
these actions have and you might just
like think right past it but one of the
examples that he used and I'll never
forget it was the Yalta Conference that
helped to to define the postor War II
era why was that Conference held in
Yalta of all places in the Soviet Union
can you venture a
guess you'll never guess I've never
thought about that it was because a spy
told Stalin that Roosevelt was sick and
so he in so Stalin insisted that the
talks be held in Yalta and Roosevelt had
to fly all the way around the war so he
went from the United States to
Casablanca to Cairo to Teran to Yalta
all the way around Europe by the time he
got to Yola he was exhausted yeah he was
also near death yes and Stalin insisted
that they begin negotiating as soon as
the plane landed and just so he could
get to sleep Roosevelt gave up
Poland whoa so there's a lot behind
these
decisions yeah there's a lot behind
these decisions fascinating class yeah
so he assigned us a
paper we had to Shadow our bosses for a
week and then write a psychological
profile of our bosses I was working uh
at the United Food and Commercial
Workers Union it at the time it was the
biggest Union within the AFL CIO
and I worked for a guy who um who I
feared a little bit he was this
mean big old school Union
organizer he had participated in a
strike at a previous job he was with the
um the women's uh what was it the the
fabric the whatever the women's you know
clothing Union was whatever um and some
scabs had beaten him up and they broke
his back he wore this awful like brace
that went from his neck to his waist
just to hold his spine together he was
just a mean tough oldtime guy yeah and
on Wednesday of that week we got into an
argument and I called him a racist which
he was he was a racist oh he got so mad
he bowled up his fists and he took a
stand and I remember thinking to myself
damn it I went too far this time and I I
put up my hands to block the punch I
knew the punch was coming and he
goes my penis is bigger than
yours and I said
what he did and he goes my penis is
bigger than yours you're like present it
I said you know what I said you're nuts
you're nuts and I quit and I walked out
and I went back to my apartment I typed
my paper and I said he was a sociopath
with Psychopathic and possibly violent
tendencies and then I had footnotes from
all these you know psych journals and
whatever so I hand in the paper a week
later I get the paper back I get an A
and he wrote two things in the in the
margin Dr post did he wrote um I didn't
say in the paper ID quit because it was
irrelevant to the paper but he said I've
never done this before but I urge you to
quit this job I agree that he is a
sociopath with Psychopathic Tendencies
wow and then he wrote underneath please
see me after class uhoh yeah so I went
to see him I said Dr post you wanted to
see me he says come down to my office it
was in the same building so I walk down
to his office he closes the door and he
says look I'm not really a professor
here I'm a CIA officer undercover as a
professor here and I'm looking for
people who might fit into the cia's
culture and I think you would fit would
you like to join the CIA now what's
going through your head you're in your
professor
yes yes that's what was going through my
head this is interesting though that he
would pick this paper was specifically
what you wrote about to choose you
because when I've had guys in in the
past like Boo Deonte like Jim Lawler I'm
I'm actually G to site Jim Lawler on
this one because he's the guy that talks
about this a lot he he really digs into
the psychological profiles that the CIA
looks for in oh it's deep oh yeah it's
deep but one of the things he says is
that he's like the CIA for especially
for covert spies yes they want people
who are dangerously straddling you know
what I'm going to say dangerously
straddling the line of being a sociopath
but they're not quite a sociopath we are
we all straddle that line I'm glad you
you raised that and I'm going to I'm
want to respond to that and then go back
to give you a little bit more detail
after I left the CIA um
um well I I met a guy at the CIA who
became a dear friend and talk about a
consant overachiever he he's a CIA
psychiatrist so he has an MD and a PhD
in
Psychology he happens to be a brigadier
general in the Army as well Army
Reserve and uh we go to the same church
we have we we are in the same men's
group you know so we we hang out guy
Greek guy so he told me
that the CIA actively seeks to hire
people who have sociopathic tendencies
not sociopaths because sociopaths have
no conscience y they're impossible to
control and they blow right through the
polygraph because they don't ever feel
guilt right so if you have a sociopathic
tendency as part of your personality you
do feel guilt but you're still happy to
break the law if you're instructed to do
so and I'll give you an example
when Dr post got me into the process and
I'll go back to the beginning of that
process in a in a moment um I was in a I
was in a group of five other
applicants and the the interviewer there
said let's do an exercise he says let's
say you're serving overseas as a CIA
operations officer and you get a cable
from headquarters saying that they need
next
Year's economic figures for
Indonesia so you begin to develop the
Indonesian economic secretary okay at
the embassy in the country where you're
serving and this guy becomes your best
friend which is the goal yeah so you're
developing him you're taking him to
dinner you're hanging out your wives
become friends you go on vacation
together you're doing this for whatever
six months 12 months and you determine
he's not recruitable what do you do
headquarters needs the information so
what do you do and one guy raises his
hand he says you double down you just
keep doing it you go out with him more
you spend more money okay what else
would you do this girl raises her hand
and she says you know maybe you get the
wife involved maybe your wife can
improve her relationship with his wife
and then you get the wife involved I'm
looking around
like is nobody paying any attention here
I raised my hand I said you break into
the embassy and you steal
it keep them he says that's exactly what
you
do that's exactly what you do well
that's a sociopathic
tendency like what are we wasting all
this time for you break into why do we
have all these people who can defeat
alarms and pick locks what are they just
going to sit at home doing nothing you
fly him out you break into the embassy
you steal it and everybody's happy now
here's the question though you're
thinking about about that even that
hypothetical cuz you're not there it's
hypothetical but you are thinking about
it in the context of being a CIA spy
paid by the government literally to have
cart blanch in some ways to do things
like this for National Security
implications and I say that because if
you're like of course I go in there and
steal it and they're like sociopathic
tendencies my one thing about this is if
they were someone else not working for
the CIA and they were painting this
situation and it was just a regular you
know American job and it had nothing to
do with National Security would you ever
say something like that or even think
something like that is okay uh you know
I'm embarrassed to say that yes I would
think that way and I'll tell you when I
went to Dee God you were perfect oh man
all the torture stuff you were
great when I went to deoe we had this
mandatory ethics class oh no and I'm
like okay that's fine I mean I've been
I'm I'm a I'm a you know well how old
was I when I went to deoe I was 40
something yeah whatever yeah 40 I was 40
so they're like uh let's say you've got
this uh you know this Japanese company
and you're on the the brink of signing a
a big deal it's a $50 million deal but
price price Waterhouse Coopers uh they
made a bid it undercuts Us by 4 million
and one of the Japanese says hey why
don't we meet up at a strip
club what do you say and I said let me
go to the bank and get $200 in singles
[Laughter]
and they're like what no no that's
exactly what you don't say but this this
is also after your career though would
you have said that before your career no
probably not see there you go see then
point being like you played in the Super
Bowl your whole career and now even
though you're getting paid a lot it's
still waiting to big huge company you
know this is like a high school football
game compared to that but you're still
in your mind thinking like it's a Super
Bowl so [__] it let's go to the strip
club see some titties and get some
information absolutely absolutely not
not and then my boss comes up to me he's
like the ethics people called me just I
said oh relax not taking anybody to a
strip club geez but anyway getting back
to the application process um well what
happens when when he tells you that and
you're like yes like down in that
classroom is there like a secret tunnel
that goes under DC and they take you to
Langley right there almost oh
figuratively so we're I'm sitting in his
office and do you know what a Rolodex is
yeah of course
okay well I thought maybe you're too
young to know it a listen I still use
that phrase my Rolodex my Rolodex so he
had a Rolodex on his desk and he he's
flipping through the Rolodex and I
remember seeing Oliver North home and it
had a number and I was like who who is
this
guy he's kind I mean Oliver North had
just yeah been convicted right from Iran
Contra so he calls this guy Bob and he
says Bob it's Jerry
I've got a good one for
you and he says okay bye-bye and he
hangs up and he says I need for you to
go to this address in Rosland which is
right across the river in Arlington
Virginia and uh go to this address and
ask for Bob I said okay so I it's only
one one Metro station took me a minute
so I get over there totally nondescript
building that doesn't exist anymore it's
been torn down and I go up to the sixth
floor and there's a security guard up
there and I said I'm here to see Bob and
he points at a door so I go I go in and
I Buzz the buzzer and they buzz me in
but it's into a little vestibule that's
like 6x6 and the second door has this
big spin lock like like in a bank but a
woman opens the door she just pokes her
hat out and she says are you here for
Bob and I said yes so she lets me in so
I'm sitting there for minute and this
enormous guy he had to be 66 67
350 comes bounding out of the office are
you John yes I'm Bob how the hell are
you doing hey great nice to meet you
come on in here have a seat so I sit
down he says Jerry says you're good and
if Jerry says you're good then you're
good with me so here's what I want you
to do he says I want you to go to George
Washington University Medical School
auditorium Saturday morning at 8 we're
going to give you some tests and then
you'll hear from me I said okay and that
was it I left so I go to GW Medical
School auditorium uh Saturday morning at
88 there are like 300 people in there
and they gave us three tests the first
one was a map of the world and it was
completely blank so you had to write the
names of all the countries but I said in
my first book I was a map nut from when
I was a little kid yeah me too so it was
just fun you know I just fill it all out
there are a couple in West Africa that
always hang me up like guinea basau and
you know Guinea conre and stuff like
that but I I pretty much did the whole
the whole world and then um there was a
current events test uh it was AB C or D
and it was so simple as to be kind of
embarrassing right and then the third
one was thousands of questions but you
just had to write agree or disagree
there's a box agree
disagree and it was stuff like I would
like to conduct a symphony
orchestra you know who who cares but
there was one it said I like
boxing and I honest to God don't really
have an opinion on boxing but even to
this day no I I I yeah to this day I
would say yes I like boxing okay MMA has
made it more
exciting think you're right about that
yeah yeah but at the time I was just
nuts for Mike Tyson cuz he he had just
come out he was young he was a East
nobody could last more than a round or
two it was amazing so I think I wrote
agree but then like 600 questions later
it says I like boxing and I was like oo
what did I say the first time you oh and
you can't go back uhuh it's like I think
I said yes and then another thousand
questions later it says I like
boxing so I'm I don't know so I was the
first one to finish out of these 300
people and the Rector said you sure
you're done I said yeah yeah I'm done I
finished everything my wife I called my
wife to come get me get in the car she
goes how did it go I said I have no idea
you were married I had just gotten
married I was 23 is this your first wife
mhm right okay so there's another one
later got it yeah so um I went home I
had no idea how I did like a week or two
later Bob calls me he goes you blew the
doors off those
tests it was amazing I said oh great he
goes here's what I want you to do I want
you go to this address in Vienna
Virginia and just knock on the door I
said that's it yeah I said
okay so I drive to vieta Virginia this
little squat two-story building you'd
never know it was there nobody would pay
any attention to it that's how they like
it yep park my car knock on the door
this lady answers are you John yes come
on in so I go in
there's a table set up and there are
three people on one side of the table
and there's a chair for me on the other
so on the one side it was a psychiatrist
a psychologist and an anthropologist
which was odd guys if you're still
watching this video and you haven't yet
hit that subscribe button please take
two seconds and go hit it right now
thank you you'd expect maybe a
sociologist but no this was an
anthropologist so I sit
there and one of them says uh describe
your relationship with your
mother and I said oh uh yeah I my mom
and I are close she was very nurturing
and always encouraged me and you know
drove me around to little league and
whatever was your father the
disciplinarian in the family and I said
no I said my my dad's a big strong guy
but he's very um he's very uh gentle and
I think he he probably would be afraid
you know to hurt us if if he were to be
the disciplinarian it's just not in his
nature he's a sweet
guy have you ever betrayed a
friendship and I remember how I
responded I said ooh I don't think so I
said let me let me think about it for a
second and they go no no that's what we
were looking for I said oh okay and then
one of them says go into the next room
we're going to take some hair some blood
and some piss and then you can go home I
said okay so I gave him some hair some
blood and some piss I got home again my
wife's like how'd it go I said I have no
idea could you tell did they say
anything about not saying anything to
your wife about who you were talking to
though they told me I could tell my wife
but not anybody outside of that tell
them tell her that it was CIA yeah I
couldn't tell anybody just in case let
you tell her yeah they let me tell her
they're they they give you some wiggle
room with your spouse but they also
strongly encourage agency romances yes
strongly which you
know oh everything every thing from an
lgbtq Club to quilting to gospel singing
yeah gospel s oh listen I was in the CIA
softball league for like eight years wow
yeah where literally every team is just
CIA people you you dress up in like the
black site uniforms crazy yeah pretty
much crazy
so you're allowed to tell your wife
about this though and that's like after
you done the questioning after you done
the questioning right there they're like
go home again yeah just go home so Bob
calls me he's like oh my God it was
great you blew the doors off I said okay
I said honestly Bob and I still don't
know who Bob was I don't even know if
his name really was Bob probably not I
think I think because he was Jerry
post's contact he was the head of HR
like the actual head of HR the head of
HR yeah for the CIA but I don't know
nobody ever told me so he
said two more steps he said your next
step is you're going to go to CIA
headquarters and there are four offices
that are interested in interviewing you
and then if one or more decide they want
to make an offer then you go through the
the in the uh background investigation
and the polygraph and I said okay
so it was near East operations they
decided they were not interested in me
uh interestingly enough there was um
what's called the
uh I forget what it is it's like some
six-month program where you just get
kind of a smattering of everything and
then they decide where where to put you
later they they weren't interested but
then I got an I got an offer
from the analytic branch that covers
North Korea which I knew literally
nothing about and a branch that Dr post
created yeah that does only
psychology for the Persian Gulf and that
was a natural fit for me and then when I
started on my first day they said we're
going to put you on Iraq wait did you go
to the farm or anything before no no
they just I went to the farm later okay
yeah I was there 4 months before I went
to the farm okay yeah so so they hire
you like you've just gone through these
four different days where Bob was
telling you to go places and they did
the investigation they did the polygraph
which freaked me out because I had never
had a polygraph exam before right and
and I what kind of questions did they
ask you uh B well it's the the preh hire
and after your first three years are are
called um full lifestyle
polygraph everything else is called a
Counter Intelligence polygraph
they only care about you know
unauthorized contact with a foreign
intelligence officer this was all about
you know drinking smoking drugs you know
weird sex crimes that kind of thing did
you have anything you know that you
thought would be a res a potential
resume breaker in your past nothing no
so you didn't have a problem with the
polygraphs no blew right through it
there was one
question and I was I was freaked out
when she told me the polygrapher told me
uh you know you're reacting to one
question and it's tripping you up and
we're going to have to we're going to
have to uh ask it again and I was like
oh my God please don't let it be the gay
question because how am I going to
explain this to my friends ah I blew
right through the whole process except
now they think I'm
gay right so I said well I said well
what's the question and she says it's
with your credit card usage and I said
my credit card usage I said I only have
but two credit cards like how I'm poor
yeah right I was only eight making 18
Grand a year
truth so uh they asked me again about my
credit cards and I answered truthfully
and then I passed and and they're not
supposed to tell you if you pass so I
said how did I do and she goes we're not
allowed to say one way or the other and
she Winks at me and I was like oh my God
I can't believe I made it she probably
got fired for that I made it I still
remember her she was very attractive
very attractive young black woman she's
about my age so
um so Bob called and he said hey
congrats expect a letter from us and I
got the letter and it said
congratulations you've been hired uh
into the uh director of intelligence
office of leadership analysis and for
the Persian Gulf for the Persian Gulf
they told me that day I'm going to be
working Iraq and I said Iraq okay this
is like 88 still yeah uh this is January
6th of 90 oh so this is right before
Desert Storm shit's about to get popping
out there well but nobody knew that and
so I said Iraq okay and my boss says
don't be disappointed these his exact
words he said learn the tradecraft learn
the writing style and then after a year
you can transfer to something more
interesting like Romania and I said oh
okay so did you speak Arabic not yet so
I start working uh Iraq and I became
Saddam Hussein's intelligence Community
biographer right whoa yeah and but who
ever heard of Saddam Hussein in January
1990 so things started heating up and
then I still remember the date on June
30th we published a paper in which we
said we believed Saddam Hussein was
going to uh attack Kuwait June 30th so
this was four and a half weeks before
the invasion of quid and um the night
before The Invasion man I was excited
like like I I was so energized that I'm
going to I'm going to be able to make
something of myself here and the senior
analyst came over to me and he said I
think you're not understanding the
import of what's happening right now and
I said yeah he said it's not unusual for
the countries we cover to go to war it's
very unusual for the countries we cover
to go to war with
us the next morning August the 2nd 1990
I'm in the shower I back then we had
these radio showers they were like
plastic waterproof showers you put in or
radios that you put in the shower oh
yeah I've seen Good Fellas right exactly
exact Jimmy you son of a [__] I just
watched that yesterday on the plane
yesterday I've watched it a hundred
times Good Fellas greatest movie ever
made it's pretty [__] awesome anyway
um they announced the invasion of Kuwait
so I rush into the office office I got
there about 7: and my boss says don't
take your jacket off we're going to the
White House I had never been to the
White House before so we get in the car
we go to the White House I'm nervous as
all get out but I am the leading expert
on Saddam Hussein period so you had
spent how many months studying n months
nine months now
so some some Secret Service guy takes us
into into the Oval Office and it's the
president the vice president the
National Security adviser the CIA
director my boss and me the president
sits down I'm on a couch right and I
remember I remember looking around like
trying to be as serious as I as I could
be and I'm looking around thinking my
buddies would not believe this in a
million years if I told them if I called
them and said you won't believe where I
am right now so the president sits down
and he goes well now what do we do and
everybody turns and looks at
me and it I I was 25 years
old so it it takes me a minute but I
said well here's what we should expect
saddam's next steps to be so we
start plotting out what the heck we're
going to
do and we got up and left and my boss
says um you might want to pack for Saudi
Arabia
so I didn't cover just Iraq I also
covered Kuwait but Kuwait was so small
that we didn't really pay much attention
to it but nobody in America knew as much
about the quati royal family as I did
and so the in nine months you got all
this down if this is all you do for 10
hours a day and then four hours on
Saturdays I mean would you mind me
asking I I don't know what's classified
here or what's not but like
they obviously you're a young guy but
they're like hey congrats you're on
Saddam or whatever early on which then
leads to all these other things but you
know this is preg gooogle era pre
whatever that you guys are also the CIA
you have resources all the files are in
on paper so where this enormous like
floor to ceiling rotating uh file
cabinets so is that what you were doing
you were just going through files uhhuh
the whole thing uhhuh were you calling
people in the field like like CIA
contacts we had these Proto computers
called Delta
datas um the screens were like this big
and they were all green but we would get
cables constantly from the state
department the
CIA the uh NSA the defense department
and then thousands tens of thousands of
pieces of
press so it's called allsource Uh
traffic all Source cable traffic could
you use keywords to type in yeah okay
but you had to be cleared for the
keyword
like I couldn't type in uh
China I'm not cleared for China at that
point that all changed later but my job
was Iraq and Kuwait and if the cable had
something to do with Iraq or Kuwait I
was going to see it I couldn't see
operational traffic that also changed
post 911 but I was already in operations
by then so it didn't matter to me how
would you amalgamate all this was it
literally like you see in the movies
where you know you had a giant room and
a board with a bunch of pictures and
[__] on it and that's what you would do
mhm mhm you know I remember I remember
that day walking to the
cafeteria there was a uh there was like
a mini we we had our Operation Center up
on the seventh floor and that they've
got TVs going from half the countries in
the world and everybody's sitting at
these tables and typing and calls are
coming in from around the world whatever
but there was a place also on the first
floor by the
cafeteria and I didn't know really what
it was I think it was I think the office
of security had it and it had a map of
the world and there were
lights uh like like pins but they were
lights in all the countries and like the
whole eight nine months that I was doing
my job like maybe it would be flashing
in you know Nepal cuz somebody massacred
one one of the royal family members
opened fire on the rest of the ro royal
family killed every last one of them
right in Nepal yeah so that's why
there's no royal family anymore oh wow I
didn't know that yeah so Nepal is
blinking or you know the the uh The
Shining path is doing something in Peru
so Peru is blinking I remember going to
lunch that day and every country in the
Middle East is blinking it was like a
like a a police car and I was like oh my
God this is this is bad so uh I ended up
flying out to uh well the royal family
escaped from from the town of ahmedi
which is the the Kuwait yeah Kuwait it's
it's in southern Kuwait it's where the
oil fields are they escaped across the
border into
Dahan and Froman yeah that's a country
no no it's a it's a city in the Saudi
Eastern Province okay I was going to say
like that's a new one no no that's it's
it's a city it's where ramco is okay
yeah and so from Dahan they went to TF
which is just outside of Mecca so I went
to T and was kind of the the liaison
with the royal family is this in August
1990 MH okay so in in those months
though where you were studying Saddam
Hussein and becoming his preeminent
biographer leading up to the meeting
with the president of the Oval
Office what let me preface this by by
saying this I don't want to make any
mistake out here Saddam Hussein was
obviously a very bad guy he he he killed
his own people oh my God it was
legendary I mean his sons might have
even been worse than he was like I would
agree with that no doubt about that and
I'm sure you know way more than I you
forgotten way more than I could ever
know that said you know we look at a lot
of this hindsight 2020 eventually we'll
get to the later Iraq war but to preface
that right now it's like you know that
we kind of went in there saying there
were these wmds that there weren't there
and when you look at the aftermath of
what was caused as a result of us doing
that it is arguably at best and pretty
much confirmed that at worst that it was
actually better with Saddam in there
there's no no question about it right so
2 million people died so because of this
at the time this is way back
M are you thinking to yourself holding
two thoughts at the same time going
really bad
guy do we have to get involved with this
though no and I'll tell you why that's a
good question really bad guy we need to
push him out of
Kuwait which was the original plan right
nobody ever used the term nation
building right that was that was the one
dirty word nobody could utter because it
was none of our business to start
building Nations we're not good at it
we're not good at it we I mean post
World War II we can't point to a single
success story really um like really not
a single one well kind of Germany and
Japan post World War I post World War II
yeah but oh you're counting that yeah
I'm counting that because of the
aftermath of World War II yeah that's
really our only success story yes so
um you know and let me add something too
about about the the cause of the war it
was clear in the early summer of
1990 actually let me ask you do you mind
pulling up a map of the Ruma oil field
Ru m a i l a Ruma oil field so this is
an oil field that's like
95% under Iraq and 5% under Kuwait on it
so which one do you want John um yeah
that that first one looks like it'll
work right there yeah okay there you go
now you see you see the the green it
sort of ends at the qua border yes it
goes across the quati border like a
kilometer and the quades were slant
drilling they were drilling diagonally
under Iraqi territory so they could
steal the oil and the Iraqis caught them
right not good so the Iraqis said you're
stealing the oil we're going to send
troops to the border and the quers like
oh my God they're starting to freak out
so the Pentagon asked the US defense
attache in Baghdad do us a favor drive
down to the border and tell us if
there's anything we should be worried
about he drives down the border and he
says the entire Iraqi military is on its
way South how big was their military oh
it was it was about 200,000 people it
was big that'll do it was the fourth
fourth largest military in the Middle
East or third it was big it was big like
Iran and Egypt were bigger but it was
big so he's like we need to take this
deadly
seriously
so the state department under Secretary
of State James Baker sent a cable to the
US ambassador to Iraq April glasby I
loved April she was career Diplomat just
an awesome person she lived with her mom
in Baghdad her mom was old and needed
you know elder care so she she was
living in Baghdad with her daughter they
were getting ready to go on vacation 4
days before The Invasion and so Baker
sent a cable saying before you go on
vacation go see Saddam
Hussein and she had only seen Saddam
once it was when she presented her
credentials so it was s didn't meet with
anybody really that's so strange like
thinking of it now like Saddam meeting
with like a Us official person uhhuh
crazy right yeah so April goes to see
Saddam and she told Saddam exactly what
she was instructed to tell Saddam right
now I remember the talking points cable
that went out and the point we wanted to
convey was that the United States does
not take a position on Arab Arab border
disputes right oh wow not what I was
expecting a critical mistake okay the
conventional wisdom was the Iraqis were
so angry about the romea oil field that
they were going to take the quat part of
the field so they were going to go into
Kuwait we thought maybe five maybe 10
kilometers cuz the rest is just
Wasteland and just secure the field
nobody thought they're going to take the
entire country and then it's going to
fall in four hours right the whole
country fell in four hours Saddam would
never I know come on now well we figured
cuz the the the Iran War Iran Iraq war
had just finished like 18 months earlier
like he really wants to start another
War but Iran's such a formidable Big C
like there's a lot there whereas Kuwait
you know little that was the key and in
his mind the American ambassador had
just said go ahead and take Kuwait we're
not going to
interfere right I mean thinking about it
though like just looking at this as a
third party Outsider
observing I mean sending 200,000 people
to the Border seems excessive taking the
entire country definitely seems
excessive but seeing as they did drill
into his country some sort of action
actually does absolutely right
absolutely right and if he had just
taken the romea oil field y'all would
have said okay that would be Iraqi today
and Saddam Hussein or one of his kids
would be the president of
Iraq yeah that'd be a very different
world you bet it would be okay so he
invades the whole country though now
what happens oh my
God I'll add one kind of funny thing
there's a a
monument a memorial maybe is a better
way to say it in Kuwait City for one of
the royal family members he was he was
like the fifth or
sixth brother of the Amir at the
time and His Name Escapes Me Now Fahad
Sheik Fahad
assabah uh there there are two versions
of the story there's the official
version and then there's the true
version so it's August it's so hot that
when you step outside your hair is in
danger of combusting right that's how
hot it is so 80% of quaes are out of the
country they're vacationing the poor
ones are skiing in Lebanon everybody
else is in the states or in France or
the UK this royal family member state in
Kuwait the official thing is the Iraqis
cross the border
he realizes what's happening he grabs a
gun he goes outside he starts firing and
the Iraqis fire back and he's
martyred and so his Lincoln Town Car
they goldplated his entire Lincoln Town
Car there's a giant golden fist coming
out of the roof of the car and the
bullet holes are still in the car from
where the Iraqi shot
him the truth is he was drunk
he was passed out on the couch at his
girlfriend's house she woke him up and
said I think the Iraqis are invading he
goes out there drunk like who shot who
in the what now and they shot him listen
John you cannot let the truth get in the
way of a good story that's you should
know this that's right so this freaking
goldplated Lincoln like a 1988 Lincoln
it's enormous it's in a traffic Island
right on the corne with this giant
golden fist coming out of it and that's
that symbolizes the Royal Family's
courageous uh they all ran for their
lives was the truth but this is their
courageous stand against the Iraqis but
we went in and it was like the shortest
War ever it was like what three days you
yeah no uh yeah very very short there's
something very important that I learned
in that conflict um that I've fallen
back on all these years
um it is to determine whether or not a
war is actually going to
happen always watch the deployment of
ships it's always about the ships uh the
conventional wisdom at the time was that
the Persian Gulf was too shallow to
accommodate an aircraft carrier so we
had never sent an aircraft carrier into
the Gulf it's also we believed too
narrow at The Straits of hormo to get in
each carrier has 12 ships that go with
it it's called a carrier battle group
okay
um by the time the bullet started flying
we had six carrier battle groups in the
Gulf we had more in the Arabian Sea the
Red Sea and the
Mediterranean like we we brought every
every aircraft carrier we had in the
world uh to just bombard the Iraqis and
then one ended up doing it really I mean
this was this was Visionary leadership
by by General Norman schwarzkoff he was
the commander of sencom
right um
it was a very simple and very Elementary
like firste plea flanking move it was as
simple as that so the Iraqis had utterly
fortified the Kuwaiti Saudi border so we
sent a couple tanks and they fought in
what became known as the Battle of KFI
it was actually just a diversion we
didn't really intend to uh to fight at
hafi what we did is we sent most
everybody else around into Saudi Arabia
up and around into Iraq and we struck
the Iraqis from the north they never
expected it and so as they're trying to
flee Kuwait on on the the Iraq Kuwait
Highway it became known as the highway
of death um we're hitting them from the
south from KFI and we're hitting them
from the north from Iraq isn't that how
they got skipio africanas back in the
day yeah might have been yeah I hope I
got that one right correctly in the
comments and we uh we killed everybody
everybody 200,000 soldiers in their
military though wiped out wiped them out
the only ones that Saddam kept behind
were the Republican guard which was the
the special forces and what was called
the special Republican guard they were
members of saddam's own family who were
the final ring of security around him
yeah now what now here's the trillion
dollar
question given that they had taken such
an act of aggression at the time tried
to take an entire Sovereign Nation and
then given that we had to send the full
force of our military in we moop the
floor with them in like three days now
that we're already there and already
engaged and we've already knock these
people out why did HW not finish the job
and leave it for Cheney and and dub he
was very clear at the time that if he
were to order American forces to
continue North we would lose the
Egyptians and the syrians and that would
make the Coalition fall apart it was it
was a diplomatic miracle that we got the
syrians to agree to go in with us and
the Egyptians that was a pretty big deal
too although we we were traditionally
close to the Egyptians um and the
jordanians asked us you know please
don't do this half of our population is
Palestinian refugees we can't afford
Iraqi refugees to come
too but that decision while it was the
right decision was cou with a bad
decision and that was to do nothing to
protect Iraq Shia Muslims in the South
we had we ended up having these no fly
zones and the South and the north to
protect the Shia and the Kurds but
then uh the the big scandal at the time
was it never occurred to us to to also
ban um helicopters we had banned
fix-wing aircraft uh from flying over
the no fly zones we didn't say anything
about helicopters and so Extinction oh
yeah yeah rotary uh rotary wing and
fixed wing and so said I'm sent every
helicopter he had to just wipe people
out wow and we were like o we wish there
was something we could do about that and
so it just dragged on year after year
after year whoa mhm okay but we we pull
out though and you're you're still like
a young ass analyst here and you were
just tossed into the middle of this you
said you were sent to Saudi Arabia this
went down yeah in September and then I
went back to
headquarters then I went back to Saudi
Arabia in February of 91 and I went into
quate city with the Marines on
Liberation day okay so I'm just trying
to understand this from the outside
based on what your job full job
description is here because you're
coming in as an analyst so when you're
brought in to do that it's not meaning
like oh go out in the field under an
assumed name or something no no no I was
John kiraku the CIA guy right and so I
was doing things like I one of the most
important things that I did when I was
in Tif as I wrote a cable back to
headquarters and I said I think the Amir
is having a nervous
breakdown which is going to be a serious
problem for us when it comes time to
coordinate military action with the
kuwaitis the Amir what made you think
that yeah because all he wanted to do
was tend to his rose garden and anytime
you try to talk to him he would just
mumbl nonsense
Shell Shocked one of the things I
learned with these psychiatrists that
were in the office was there is no such
thing as a as a nervous breakdown that's
just a colloquialism that we've come up
with to describe any number of of mental
episodes and so um we decided not to
deal with the Amir anymore we're going
to deal directly with the Crown Prince
and the Crown Prince had his [__]
together I want to make sure I'm
understanding this the Amir you're
talking about Kuwait yes the Crown
Prince are you talking about Saudi
of Kuwait yeah they were all in Exile in
Saudi Arabia in the city of TF so the
crown prin supposed to be lower than the
Amir yeah the Amir is the king Okay in
Arabic the word Amir is is Prince but
for all intents and purposes it's King
in fact the the Amir of Bahrain changed
his title to King okay recently so is
that like did that cause a problem
though cuz you were going around the
king no we invited him to Washington and
he came and balled his eyes out and got
a state visit and stayed at the White
House and we told him we loved him and
we flew Kuwaiti flags all up and down
Pennsylvania Avenue and he was okay HW
is back there like what a [__] HW I
have to
say I had I'm a lifelong Lefty but I had
mad respect for HW really why he really
knew what he was doing what makes you
say that
there's a famous
story from the the day after the
invasion Margaret Thatcher who was the
Prime Minister of the UK called him and
said quote now's not now is not the time
to go wobbly
George and that's what sort of bucked
him up but one of the reasons why I have
such respect for him is that he
surrounded himself with very smart
people they made mistakes like everybody
makes but for the most part they really
did use diplomacy when w became
president we had this ongoing joke at
the agency that we had never seen an
Administration work so hard to not talk
to people as the George W Bush
Administration it's ironic though
because a lot of the people that were
put in his administration were the same
people yeah Dick Cheney and Don Rumsfeld
being two of the the worst shape
shifters oh yeah that I've ever seen in
Washington
you know Cheney was Cheney was a tough
guy when he was the Secretary of Defense
um and I remember once he complained to
The Washington Post because they
described him in an article as a
moderate Republican and he wanted a
retraction he said I'm not a moderate
I'm a conservative and that should have
been a warning for the rest of
us yeah he's one of those guys
like I mean the first word I think of
with him is evil I can't see I can't see
anything that he did and I won't even
and I I've gone through a lot of his
other history too but I won't even go
back there I will say everything he did
as vice president and on yes you know
you talk you talked evil yeah I
mentioned all these Special Forces guys
that came through here and fought in
those Wars it's the first does even the
ones of them that are like conservative
first words out of their mouth when they
talk about it Dick Cheney he was
perfectly happy to send you for your to
your death uh for no discernable policy
reason did you ever spend any time with
him oneon-one or in a small setting uh
in a small setting uh yeah several times
what was that
like it was educational and I'll give
you an
example uh the day before we invaded
Iraq in 2003 it was our
final our final meeting oh you were in
there with oh yeah I was the note taker
for George Tennant so we were in the I I
at the time I was the executive
assistant to the cia's deputy director
for operations and so my job was to sit
quietly against the wall and take notes
so we had the final principal's
committee meeting the night before The
Invasion and the meeting is chaired by
Dick Cheney so it's chainy and his
notetaker Connie rice and her notetaker
Colin Powell and his
notetaker um who else was there the head
of
NSA uh the commander of centcom General
Tommy Franks M um the chairman and Vice
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff and
us and so George is sitting at the head
of the table like I am right now right
and there's a microphone right here and
I'm sitting directly behind him we're
the only two people in the room and so
like straight out of The Godfather it
this was this is one of the most intense
things that I've ever experienced in
life not just at my CIA career so George
is sitting there and remember the CIA is
a policy Support Agency it's not a
policy agency so whatever they're
planning here we have no say so in it we
provide the intelligence to allow them
to make a decision in a perfect world
that's the way it's suppos to right yeah
so they had made up their mind they're
going to they're going to invade Iraq
they're going to kill Saddam
Hussein in fact you know what I'm going
to interrupt myself here and and say six
months earlier when I got this job I
just come back from Pakistan I was the
chief of of counterterrorism Ops in
Pakistan so I go my first day and I said
so what are we
doing I said to the deputy director and
he says to me I actually can't tell you
what we're doing you say it just like
that I did yeah sounds right so uh he
goes you need to go up the sixth floor
sign your secrecy agreements and then
come back down here and then I'll tell
you what we're doing I said okay so I go
upstairs sixth floor which is near East
operations or at least it was way back
then and uh because I'm talking 22 years
ago so um I knew the guy that was in
there he was the deputy director uh of
of Ops and I said uh hey I said I'm here
to his name was John I said John I'm
here to sign my secrecy agreements he
had them all laid out there were six of
them he had them laid out no no no no
this is a junior guy more more Junior
than Brennan Brennan was the uh Deputy
executive director at the time so I sign
six secrecy
agreements and I go so what's
up we're going to Iraq he says
well early next year we're going to
invade Iraq we're going to overthrow
Saddam Hussein and we're going to open
the world's biggest Air Force Base in
southern Iraq and then we're going to
move all of our air assets out of Saudi
Arabia so we can deprive Osama Bin Laden
of the ability to say that we are
polluting the land of the two holy
mosques this feels like a Night Live
skit and I looked at him like like my
mouth was yeah and I it's so like [__]
with me I all I could blurt out was but
we haven't caught ban
yet I thought that that was the mission
the mission was to capture kill Osama
Bin Laden that's what we were all
working on he starts laughing and he
goes he goes dude the decision's already
been made yeah the battle lines are
already drawn oh my God he said the
proar groups are ovp office of Vice
President OSD Office of the Secretary of
Defense and National Security adviser he
said the anti-war groups are State CIA
and Joint
Chiefs and he said and we've been
outvoted and this is interesting too
because George Tennant gets a lot of
[__] for the for the quote slam dunk
slam DK now now I read in the eye of the
storm that was the name of his book
right I read that years ago you know I
always sorry but I always get very
suspicious of the CIA guys and whatever
however George Tennant is one of the
guys over the years I've studied who
ironically was in charge he was in
charge from 97 to 04 which is when all
the [__] happen so on paper if you just
looked at you'd be like well he must
have been [__] terrible I actually
like George Tennant and I and I think
George Tennant and I know that's just
because you're Greek but that's that's
90% of it yes but I I don't think George
likes me very much but I like him I
think George tenant is actually a real
guy he doesn't strike me as a spooky
dude he's a real emotional dud he never
in the
CIA before being before being the the
deputy director which which which also
like is another perfect Point coming
from the outside because he kind of has
that he's not ingrained in it right but
he took so much [__] for this stuff and
continues to but I feel like I believe
you when you say that camp M I'm not
saying I believe you for all of the CIA
I guarantee there were some other dudes
there who were about this oh totally
totally you're right but institutionally
yeah the CIA was so laser focused on
Osama Bin Laden and Al-Qaeda they didn't
want to be distracted by a war of choice
in Iraq another thing I learned is that
in almost every one of these scenarios
that came up during the course of my
career The Joint Chiefs of Staff were
the most
anti-war of any of the uh the major
policy uh
entities that's I like that MH those I
mean that's literally been their life
yeah because their position was wait a
minute wait a minute the state
department hasn't even tried to diffuse
this let the state department work work
this first and then we'll see later on
if we need to go to war because they
know the cost too more than anyone they
understand you're exactly right you're
exactly right so I'm sitting in this uh
in this briefing Cheney's chairing it
and everybody else is just kind of
sitting there and uh Cheney says to
General
Franks excuse me Cheney says to General
franksen Franks why don't you start off
with the order of battle I've said
before I hate order of battle briefings
I hate them they're so boring to me and
I I'm not a military analyst so it's
like we have elements of the first
division are moving North Northwest and
we have the fifth Cavalry or they're
going here and then we've got the the
Brigade of who cares first of all go
[__] hit him yeah seriously like do
we really need to know these details
just do what you do and tell us how it
turns
out so I'm writing all this stupid stuff
down and then FR are you are you making
faces while you're writing it I know
right you definitely are I probably was
so I'm writing it all down and George is
just sitting there like a statue just
sitting there like this not making any
facial expressions or anything and again
it's not his his position to talk here
the policy decision's been made so our
role is over pretty much so General
Franks as he's wrapping up his briefing
he says if all goes if all goes well we
can be in teron by
August and George Goes Like This he
turns off the microphone and he turns to
me and he says did he say ter
or did he say
Baghdad and I go he said teron oh my God
and he
says have these people lost their minds
yeah and then he turns the mic back on
and just sits there so the briefing ends
I go back to the office the deputy
director says how'd the briefing go and
I said did you know we were going to
invade
Iran and he goes oh are they still
talking about that oh my God he goes
we're not can invade Iran these guys
don't know anything about the Middle
East and we didn't because we got bogged
down as soon as you there was this one
idiot from the uh National Security
Council I don't want to say his name but
I didn't like this guy from the very
beginning and it was because he was
demeaning like he he would call he would
call Iraqi which really bothered me I
found it to be racist and
um and he had
mocking mocking terms for the Kurds it
just bothered me and so he said as
Frank's ended his briefing he said as
soon as we cross that border tomorrow
they're going to throw flowers at us and
I said to the deputy director afterwards
I told I told him what this guy had said
and I
said these guys really don't understand
that we are going to be an invading and
occupying Force right like I don't if
the
Canadians crossed our border militarily
I wouldn't be throwing flowers at them
right so imagine if the Americans go
Halfway Around the World to invade an
Arab country yeah they're not going to
be throwing flowers at us yeah but these
idiots actually believed it i t i I've
talked about this a bunch on the podcast
but there's a story my friend Ryan Tate
had told in episode 2017 and I could
never remember if it was him cuz he was
a Recon Marine doing these door knocks
or if it was someone else and he just
confirmed for me it was actually it was
a story he had heard but you know when
we were in Iraq obviously and [__] was
going south all the different units had
to do door to doors from a safety
precaution which we're not good at and
even besides that though like we had
created an environment where we had to
do that and it's like the guys have to
follow orders they have to go in there
guns get on the [__] floor whatever
and the way the story went is that this
they go into a house and they're getting
everyone on the floor whatever head down
head down and a seven-year-old kid comes
up looking at him with the guns with a
thousand yard stair and puts his hands
up and then lays down on the floor head
down and they're like no no you know
trying to speak something to get him to
be like no no you don't have to get on
the floor whatever and they like pull
him up and the kid looks at him with a
thousand yard stare and just like almost
like a ghost like floats into the next
room where where they send him and you
know like dead to the world because this
was his reality and the point of the
story was that kid when he's a terrorist
in 15 years and blowing up innocence or
whatever I'm not saying empathize with
that act that's bad you know someone
made that decision but if you can't see
where the [__] he was born your your
eyes aren't open there are consequences
that's right to our decisions you know
I'll tell you one of the things that I
learned in
Pakistan was that of the the low Lev
Al-Qaeda
Fighters sorry of the low-level Al-Qaeda
Fighters that that I participated in
capturing and I mean like kids that were
18 to say
25 they they almost all told exactly the
same story none of them could read and
write I don't know what's the matter
with me none of them you want take a
drink yeah yeah go for it this this
break is brought to you by John te
so they couldn't read and write they had
no uh skills no job training many of
them had very poor relationships with
their fathers which I never really
understood but it's not my
baileywick and they wanted to get
married but what man would want his
daughter to marry a guy who can't read
can't write can't work has no skills and
no future I wouldn't want my daughter to
marry a guy like that sure so the local
Imam
uh would go up to these guys and say you
don't want to you don't want to live in
this terrible Little Village you should
go make Jihad against the Americans and
we'll give you $200 a month and if
you're martyred we'll give your parents
a $500 martyrdom bonus and so they'd go
to Pakistan and be smuggled into
Afghanistan they had no beef against the
United States until we started droning
their Villages yeah and that's when
everything changed you know Iraq is
different because we were busting down
the doors being their daughters and
killing their you know parents and all
that stuff
so in the in the places where we weren't
at War Tunisia think Algeria Yemen
whatever um they had no beef against us
and then we started sending drones to
blow up the hospital or the mosque or
their house or whatever and we killed
their cousin we killed their dad and we
killed the grandfather and and now all
they want to do is kill Americans yeah
it's a never ending cycle man I mean you
and you look at like October 7th which
was you know it was terrible what
happened there and the guys the guys who
did that are are deplorable I I don't I
don't want to be misheard here totally
agree I I see where a 20-year-old
floating over that border in a [__]
parachute who's lived in a 20 M Zone
where he's not allowed to leave his
entire life with no hope trapped in
their life sardines which was you know
there were two sides to that story too
like I see Israel's position on that
however it's like I see where that anger
comes from I'm not I'm not in any I
don't Advocate death and destruction but
I understand the anger and and I also to
that point look at Israel and I'm like
what are they supposed to do though like
imagine it was 2006 and instead of the
Middle East Iraq was where Mexico is
would you ever leave that border open no
never right so what it it was like to me
when they gave when they gave that away
if you will in like
056 it it it was creating a cycle you
know which then if they didn't give it
away they'd be oh you're the langr like
it's a [__] or a fart type situation
you're [__] there was a reason why
when Egypt and Israel uh signed the Camp
David peace treaty the Egyptians said oh
yeah yeah we want Sinai back but you can
keep Gaza we want that back yeah yeah
the Egyptians knew what they were doing
yeah and it's and and a guy I really
like a lot is is the king of Jordan oh
yeah Abdullah do you know him I do know
him you're another one that knows him I
have people who have been everybody CIA
knows Abdullah oh yeah yeah he's got a
nice he's got a couple nice residences
in the DCR I've I've SE I've seen one of
them dude's dude's balling but what I
what I like about him is when you look
at his geopolitical predic
in the last over two decades yeah he's
right on oh my God is that guy right on
so right when October 7th broke out this
is maybe 10 15 days later I told this
story in episode 224 of bamonte but I'll
say it again he was asked oh if you care
so much about the Palestinians why won't
you take in the refugees and he's like
I'm glad you asked I the country's
palestin ref he's like he's like first
of all that but
secondly these ones right here in Gaza
are now a part of an ongoing
geopolitical war and if I take them in I
am going to give the worst people of
Israel's government exactly what they
want they are now going to be a part of
my country and they are effectively
going to be what you would call
ethnically cleansed out of Gaza and the
population will be gone and therefore
Israel will have room to come in and
take it whereas if I don't take them in
maybe there's some sort of solution we
can come to here while those people
still stay in the land he's 100% right
I think he nailed it you know there was
a piece published today let me see if I
can find it real quickly uh yeah here it
is um the Israeli American businessman
pitching a $200 million plan to deploy
mercenaries to Gaza us authorizes CIA
mercenaries to run biometric camp in
Gaza Strip what this is is a proposal
for an Israeli settlement in Northern
Gaza right because remember in the peace
treaty the the deal was you had to
destroy all the settlements in Gaza now
they're talking about reinstituting the
uh settlements beginning in the north
but putting these impenetrable walls
around them well this is a this is an
act of ethnic cleansing you can't do
that it's a violation of international
law but this is exactly what the Israeli
government's policy is yeah I I'm I'm a
big believer that when people say things
out loud listen to them so I I I don't
want to come across as defending
Netanyahu here I I think Netanyahu needs
to retire and get the hell out of there
I think the guy's a disaster the one
thing I I have empathized with him in
this scenario with a little bit is that
the guy the guy's very conservative
compared to his cabinet he's like a
lefty he's a screaming Lefty compared to
and some of that's his fault Mar benav
and smotrich and all these other guys
the words out of my mouth so smotrich
says the the financial Minister says the
Finance Minister who also happens to
have authority over West Bank security
somehow oh that's interesting yeah he's
so he's he's a he's a multi-tool asset
if you will that's right but he said and
I'm paraphrasing this right now so
people go pull up the exact quote so you
can read it for yourself but he
essentially said that something to do
with like the I don't know if it was the
Bible but like ancient text says Israel
should have parts of Lebanon parts of
Jordan parts of Egypt and parts I'm
missing one country in there but he also
said parts of Saudi Arabia which made me
laugh out loud and I'm like I'm like so
when you have a top level Guy saying
something like this
yeah so I'm not crazy for thinking that
no no these guys are dangerous you know
uh SM was it SM or no it wasn't it was
benir benir he's the worst he's the
worst he had a picture of uh yeah gold
yeah in his hanging in his living room
he's a kinist he's a kinist and he's
also a convicted felon having been
convicted of anti-muslim hate crimes and
that's the guy that you put in charge
yeah see that's crazy to me because it
makes it like my my my friend ER Eric
ziger who's been in here he was also on
Danny's podcast before me great great
episode but you know he's this you would
love him he's actually kind of like you
like he comes across as like happy
go-lucky aloof but he knows every
[__] thing that's going on and his
whole thing was after college he's
probably in the CIA but after college
like he traveled around to all these
countries that are Without Borders right
so that aren't official like the Kurds
all the way down to like [__]
liberland and he eventually becomes you
can't make the [__] up the Ambassador
for liberland into Somali land which is
another unrecognized country I've been
to Somali land okay but that one's like
big Liber land's like 15 people wow he
got that job on the back of a jet ski
with the president of liberland who like
wanted to pay him a Bitcoin or something
long story but anyway so he has this
amazing quote CU he's like a walking
Vice documentary like the old Vice when
it was good I'd like to meet him he's
like he's like people are not their
governments MH and I'm like H and it's
so simple but when you think about it
it's 100% true because it's like so many
people in Israel right now don't support
like what SMR or doing in fact in fact
Netanyahu who who heads the the biggest
party within that Coalition has an
approval rating of 19% that's right so
he does not represent the Israeli people
yeah and benav and smotrich have
minuscule followings it'd be like saying
Dick Cheney represented us exactly it's
like we all hate I mean anyone normal
hates Dick Cheney we know he a bad guy
you know maybe people didn't know as
much as they should have before he went
in office all right well then he showed
who he was right and now he's not there
anymore but it makes these situations so
complicated because you know we're
naturally tribal around the world and so
people want to make it all about this
versus that and there's so much more
Nuance among the people if not in the
government oh yeah you can say that
again yeah so anyway we we got off topic
with that because we we were back in
your story when when you got there and
were in the meeting with Cheney and you
know they say Tyron and all that but you
know you had you spent I want to say it
was like eight years where you were
doing a lot of time working the Iraq
angle is that fair to say eight years
all right so now in 2003 it had been
seven years or something since you did
that but obviously you're still
extremely knowledgeable about the whole
thing what did you think of the whole
wmd angle there
oh you know of all the CIA people
working on some aspect of Iraq I only
met one she was a relatively well I
shouldn't say junior she was a mid-level
analyst she was the only one who really
believ that the Iraqis had
wmd yeah you know this was this was
passed down to the CIA by the White
House the White House said the position
is there's wmd and that's why we're
going to do this based on what you guys
are the ones who were supposed to decide
that or figure that out yeah I remember
a knockdown drag out fight between the
CIA wmd analysts and the department of
energy wmd analysts and the department
of energy they were like there's wmd we
got to stop them we and the CIA is like
we're not seeing it we're not seeing any
wmd there's kind of an interesting story
there and this is this is my own
observation
um sanam's two
sons-in-law Hussein camel al-majid who
was the minister of Industry and
Military
industrialization and Saddam camel al-
maid who was the head of the special
security
organization uh I'm sorry to the head of
the special Republican guard they were
married to saddam's two daughters um
ragged and R what an unfortunate name I
know
right so
um s sanam's eldest son UD who was an
absolute
psychopath yeah bloodthirsty cold
blooded murderer y he would women and
then throw them off the roofs of
hotels um there they are that's that's
UD so um
again so I have to make a when I'm doing
that by the way John I have to make a
mark to alessie unfortunately like with
YouTube's monetization policies there
certain words that got to get like bleep
so when it you're great you no no no no
no you say whatever you want but it's
stupid words like the r word that just
came up so I got to like silence that on
YouTube so when I'm doing this nothing's
wrong but he's just making good think
but yeah go ahead about UD so UD um his
second son Kus was you know nuts and a
killer but but a little bit more
responsible we liked him than UD we we
hated him less we hated him less but
anyway Hussein camel and Saddam camel
were afraid of
UD and UD saw both of them as potential
Challengers once Saddam had Departed the
scene and it got to the point where you
know I I can't say what the what the in
there was an incident in which Hussein
camel and Saddam camel became so
frightened of UD they decided to defect
to
Jordan yeah it was bad when is this uh
this was
1990 like January of 93 all right so way
before yeah okay so they defected to
Jordan and King Hussein invited a group
of CIA people to go to Jordan to
interview
them
um a bunch of us
went one of the things that struck me
immediately was they were wearing
sidearms and I thought what what Bad
Manners you're a guest of the king
you're asking for refuge in a Royal
Palace and you're carrying a sidearm
like who do you think you are so we sat
down at the table Saddam not Saddam
campel Hussein campel says all right we
need uh weapons we need tanks we need
air cover we need secure Communications
and my boss is like whoa whoa whoa whoa
we're not here to help you overthrow
Saddam Hussein we would never do that no
we're here for you to tell us where the
wmd
is and he's like I'm not I'm not telling
you where the wmd is you're going to
help me overthrow Saddam Hussein so he
didn't deny it no I'm confident they had
wmd in
1993 Define just just to be clear out
there Define wmd um definitely chemical
weapons because they had used chemical
weapons against the Kurds and the and
the
Iranians um maybe biological weapons you
know you can create BW in in your
kitchen it's impossible to say oh that's
a lab for BW because you can do it
anywhere with a sink and a you know in
an incubator yeah I I just want to make
sure we Define that because for what
it's worth I I had Danny Hall in here
who's a legendary Silver Star winner
long time special forces guy and so we
did two episodes EP episode 2117 like 8
minutes into that one he talks about how
he he did witness in the invasion in '
03 he knows they did have biological
weapons where people get hung up as the
nuclear things they didn't have nuclear
didn't exist right uh the biological
weapons I would I would believe what he
said yeah yeah CW was the big thing
because that was most of the of the
Arsenal the wmd Arsenal was chemical
weapons yeah
so but they weren't giving it to you no
they weren't telling you and we weren't
going to help them so we ended up
sitting there staring at each other for
an hour and then we just said we're
flying back to Washington and so we did
but what we did in the meantime was we
leaked a story a false story to the Arab
newspapers saying oh my god there was a
secret CIA delegation in town and they
met with Hussein camel and Saddam camel
and they gave them
everything the Iraqis they told the
Americans everything oh you burned them
and we think that Saddam saw the article
and destroyed all the chemical
weapons whoa so that was successful
that's a good leak uhuh the only
remnants of chemical weapons we were
able to find after we invaded Iraq had
been buried in the desert and had been
there for a decade and what were they uh
they were Rockets legitimate Delivery
Systems where CW could be loaded okay I
one of the one of the most shocking
revelations at least to me it was
shocking that I've ever had happen in my
studio was episode 129 with Jim Lawler
who we mentioned earlier yeah Jim's
great so Jim was by the end of his
career if he ever left CIA probably
didn't but he was in there from 81 to 06
officially and he's been a great and
valuable employee since then but in ' 03
when we're going to do this he was if
not their most
senior anti- wmd spies around the world
he was one of their most senior
absolutely and maybe about an hour 40 or
an hour 50 into that episode I asked him
what his involvement was in the wmd
investigation leading up to the invasion
of Iraq and he said he had no
involvement
I looked at him I said and I said what I
just told you which you know making sure
I was right that he was literally if not
the most senior or one of the most
senior guys goes no that's right I said
so one of our most senior or the most
senior guy in that job description was
not involved in the intelligence
gathering for what was going to be the
biggest invasion in decades for America
he was like that's what I'm telling you
that should tell you a lot about Dick
Cheney and about the the decisionmaking
process at the White House oh yeah
because that is absolutely true what he
said and Jim's a huge fan of George
Tennant and very close with him and and
a big defender of him and when I was
putting those two together I'm like you
know I will say you know I mentioned
earlier George probably doesn't like me
because of my post CIA you know career
but I had deep respect for George tenant
um George was a very difficult guy to
get along with really yeah I I I kind of
told tell a a funny story you know maybe
it's funny in retrospect it wasn't funny
when it was happening but you know when
he became when he became the director
that was a a glorious day for every
Greek American in the CIA we had a
little club we would meet once a month
for lunch so that the senior people
could help the junior people and you
know gust abatus who was who was played
by uh Philip Seymour Hoffman in Charlie
Wilson's work gust was my mentor and uh
you know we traveled together doing
operations and all kinds of stuff so
George becomes the the C director and
it's like oh my God this is a great day
for for Greek America and so
um you know I'd bump into him at church
every once in a while his parents uh was
it his parents or his in-laws his
in-laws they never missed a Sunday and
um and then as I got more and more
senior at the CIA I would be closer to
him MH well when I was still on the
analytics side he stopped me in the hall
one day and he said hey where are your
people from and I said they're from
roads all four of my grandparents uh
immigrated from RADS and he says Ah an
Islander you think you're better than I
am because his people came from epidos
which is along the border with Albania
MH
mountains and I said no I I don't think
I'm better than you and he said yeah you
do all the Islanders they think they're
better than the mainlanders and we're
like we had a chuckle and he walked his
way and I walked my
way there was a Sunday that Saddam did
something I don't remember what it was
and I got a call you got to come in and
brief the director I said okay I put on
my best suit I go in go up to the
director's office it's George and John
mcglaughlin the deputy director the
National Intelligence officer for the
near East Ben Bon who was a great friend
of mine and general I don't know what
his first name was they called him soup
because his he was General Campbell so
Campbell soup it was anybody everybody
just called him soup I called him
General Campbell so
um so I do the briefing very
straightforward and George did something
during the briefing that offended me but
I didn't let on so I'm wearing my best
suit McLaughlin's wearing mclin was the
best dressed man at the CIA so he had
this fabulous suit Ben Bon didn't have
any kids so he had the money for you
know a $200 tie in the best suit and
general Campbell got his three shiny
stars and he's in his uniform George is
wearing a pair of jeans that are torn at
the knee he's got a lumberjack shirt on
cigar always yeah never lit always
chewing on it always chewing on it it
was
disgusting and he's wearing these
Timberland
boots and he took the boots off and he
took his socks off and he picked his
toenails while I'm giving the
briefing and later on Ben Bach said to
me that was so [__] disrespectful I
can't believe he would do that I said he
did that on purpose because it was me
but anyway I finished the
briefing and I said Mr director if you
have any questions I'm happy to take
them and he says to to the
general he thinks he's better than I
am his people are from an island oh my
God mine are from the mountains and all
the Islanders think they're better than
the mainlanders which is actually true
we do but I I mean they do I don't I
don't care where he's from besides we're
both born in the United States so what
do I care yeah so we I said sir I I
don't I don't think I'm better than you
I don't know why you say this and
afterwards Ben Bon and I get in the in
the elevator there's a dedicated you
know the director's elevator that goes
all the way down and he's like what the
[__] was all that about and I said Ben
he does this to me all the time I don't
really understand it and um he's like
you know the the thing with the picking
his toenails that that was so
disrespectful and I said he did that on
purpose because it was me and we have
some beef I have no idea what the origin
of it is but I think he genuinely
doesn't like me and it's only because my
people come from an
island
so so we move on from
that and then I was in a meeting once oh
my God it was like George John
McLaughlin all of the six Deputy
directors Steve Hadley was the National
Security advisor I think Colin Powell
was
there and it's like a fantasy football
draft to people and they're all in the
director's conference rooms this is a
big deal right so we're we're doing our
briefings one at a time and everybody
they have the you know the Iraq military
guy and the Iraq political guy and the
Iraq oil guy and then I'm there cuz I'm
doing Ops
and he's like
uh you believe this guy he thinks he's
better than I am again and I was like
are you [__] kidding
me so I just sat there and took it and
afterwards the deputy director says to
me what's the beef with you to I have no
[__] idea I don't know I don't
understand why he does
this unless he really is see in his book
in his book he did say that he had that
uh what What's it called like fraud
syndrome or whatever it is where uh oh
what's the term imposter Sy imposter
syndrome he has that impostor syndrome
he grew up above a grocery store yeah
right and all of a sudden the guy's the
the longest serving CIA director in
American history yeah and he this was
probably a self-esteem thing on his part
yeah I think so him not knowing that my
mom and dad were're Elementary School
teachers right and I probably have the
same impostor syndrome that he does cuz
who am I I'm nobody and and he just
decides he's going to come after me now
there were other Greek Americans that he
thought come after them no he promoted
there was one that he just promoted all
the way into the senior service and I
remember saying you know Andy's great
but sis2 like seriously what's that all
about did was it you didn't he meet your
parents at one point yeah at the Greek
festival at St George Church in Bethesda
Maryland now when was this uh he had
just been named deputy
director okay so he met them and he
still okay tell the story please I I was
standing in line with my brother at the
Greek festival Greeks have this this
little dessert or treat called L mothers
it's just fried dough and they pour they
pour honey and cinnamon on it I'm in the
Lu's line I didn't notice that he was
standing right in front of me and I said
to my brother you know what the best luu
Mothers I ever had in my life were on
the island of hios my my first honeymoon
and uh he turns around and he says the
best lukumades I ever had were at the
island of hios and I said oh I said Mr
tenant I'm I'm John kako I'm one of your
analysts and we met and I said oh this
is my mom and dad this is George Tennant
and then I took them
to family
day we have a picture yeah Family Day N
uh 2000 he's director now two yeah he's
director mhm and my mom is like oh my
God there's George tenant I want to meet
George tenant and I said I said no no
the [__] you don't no no no don't do
that and she's like no I want to meet
him he's a mountainer and his wife was
there and she had just published this
cookbook that CIA women had published
and and she's selling the cookbook
there's a CIA women's cookbook yeah I
need to see that [__] you know I will
say he did one solid for me um when I
was station in
Athens I recruited a guy who was a
Bonafide
terrorist right but we had this Clinton
era
prohibition on recruiting people who had
committed murder in a terrorist Act was
this a Palestinian or a 179 guy a
Palestinian
okay and
so the the Europe division they're like
sorry you can't you can't formalize they
formalize the relationship
well this guy's willing to give us you
know 17n information on
17n U revolutionary organization 17
November which is a leftist organization
in Greece yeah yeah right
so they they just won't won't do it
so I flew home for the CIA Christmas
party and every year at the Christmas
party the director stands in the lobby
of the old building you know where the
famous seal is on the floor and the wall
of Honor with the Stars and all that
stuff it's
very it's a very uh you know emotion
provoking right
set so I went up and I said uh I said
Merry Christmas Mr director and he said
how are things in Athens I said actually
that's what I came to talk to you
about that Merry Christmas was [__]
it was I don't give a [__] what is
Christmas is like happy Hanukah too so
told him I said the division won't let
me recruit a guy and this this guy's the
real deal and I mean 24 hours later I
had permission to recruit him
wow he did going back though if I
remember correctly like he actually did
meet your parents or something and
didn't he like give him something or
like say yeah he gave my mom a uh a
piggy bank with the CIA seal on it and
he said it was basically like a Greek
stick together kind of uhhuh but still
after that he still like this guy thinks
he's better dumping on me about being
from roads he's one so psychologically
speaking hearing all this it sounds you
know you'd never think something's
textbook talking about a guy who's like
a spy but it sounds pretty textbook
where it's like that's how he gets out
his insecurity but he secretly likes you
I hope so because I mean he did that for
you that thing I'm in I'm asking him for
a favor I emailed him yesterday and I'm
asking him for a favor so we'll see
actually I'm going to see if he's
responded like a little little pardon
type
favor maybe yeah little something little
little something there's not a payment
to Giuliani involved with this one
[__] juliani that's another thing we
can talk about what what did he do to
you let's take that tangent [__]
Giuliani [__] guy talk about this
guy's an arch criminal and and I think
you're probably right about I'm gonna
make a prediction Rudy Giuliani dies in
prison that's my prediction I don't know
that you'll be wrong about that so you
know I have been actively seeking a
pardon
from before I even left for prison I was
convicted in 2012 of violating the
intelligence identities protection act
of 1981 it's a incredibly obscure yeah
uh law I'm one of only two people ever
been that's ever been convicted of it
and the other person was actually a spy
for the government of Ghana right so the
guy that wrote The Laugh those
imagine imagine shots fir she was she
was screwing the uh she was screwing a a
a Ganan uh intelligence officer oh and
she gave him the names of all the CIA uh
spies in Ghana oh yeah nice of her yeah
she got she got far less time than I did
she got eight months I got
23 and I never did anything like that
right the guy that wrote the law that I
was convicted of violating Morton Halper
former assistant Secretary of State
assistant Secretary of Defense and
senior director of the National Security
Council um Mort wrote a letter to
President Obama saying that this is not
why he wrote the law and that I should
never have been charged in the first
place
so I've asked
several important people and we'll come
back to that story later by the way I
want to let people out there now I just
don't want you to get off this several
important people to uh you know put in a
word or sign a letter I've had some
success this year uh that's not goinging
process but anyway at the uh during the
Trump Years A friend of mine said a
republican friend of mine said oh you
should talk to Rudy Giuliani Rudy's got
the president's ear if anybody can get
you a pardon it's Rudy do you have a
path to Rudy and I said I
might um the former New York what was he
the police commissioner Bernie Carri
yeah I think that was what his position
was when I first got out of prison he
emailed me and he said hey he um I think
you and I should go to college campuses
and do a like a speaking tour together I
said hey that's a great idea nothing
ever came of it but it was nice of him
to reach out so I I emailed him I said
Bernie I know that you're still in touch
with uh with Giuliani and I'd like to
apply for a pardon uh from Trump can you
put me in touch with him so he says yeah
I'll put you in touch with his guy so he
puts me in touch with Rudy's guy his guy
yeah
and I I email him the guy calls me he
says actually we're going to be in
Washington next week why don't we meet
at the Trump Hotel uh on Tuesday and I
said okay I get off at 2 how about if we
meet at 2:30 and he said actually he
says Rudy is not very good by 2 o'clock
and he makes this motion yeah and I said
I can't believe I'm surprised by that
yeah I was like oh okay he said it's
going to have to be earlier let's call
it
11: and I was like oh so I took the day
off right so my attorney and I my
attorney is also one of my best friends
in the world he used to be the deputy
attorney general under Reagan what's his
name Bruce Fine shout out Bruce shout
out to Bruce Harvard Law
Berkeley Deputy attorney general general
counsil of Federal Communications
Commission the guy's done everything
he's an awesome
guy so Bruce and I go go to the Trump
Hotel
and and this is 2018 20 yeah
2018 and I had hired Bru Bruce
introduced me to a to a republican
lobbyist who had run the 2016 Trump
campaign in Florida so I hired her and I
go to I go to see Rudy and Rudy and and
his guy and then some other hanger on
that I I don't I don't even know who it
was and we're sitting there you know
thank thanks for seeing me nice to meet
you so we're sitting there and he Rudy's
like uh oh the weather's great today in
DC he like yeah yeah it's really
nice and how about those Mets it's like
yeah great I'm a pirates fan but the
Mets are really good this year and I'm
thinking what the [__] is he
doing so I said Mr Mayor oh M you hit
him with Mr Mayor you have to right I
said Mr Mayor there's this issue of a
pardon and he says he goes like this
anybody know where the pisser is and he
stands up and he walks
away and I said to the guy what just
happened and he says you never talk
about a pardon to Rudy you talk about me
you talk to me and I talk to Rudy oh my
God and I'm like all right all right and
the guy says Rudy's gonna want $2
million isn't this illegal absolutely
this is a
felony absolutely
yes so I go $2 million and I laughed I
go look first of all I don't have $2
million I will never have $2 million
secondly why in the world would I spend
$2 million to recoup a $700,000
pension John kiraku Answer ever so I
said I'm sorry for wasting your time and
Bruce and I got up and we walked out
what did Bruce say to this I mean that's
as we're walking out Bruce just said
criminals Criminal
well that night I was invited to a book
launch at the uh at the Republican
National Committee buddy of mine had
written a book the Republicans love him
so I went and there was another
whistleblower there uh Robert mlan who's
an awesome guy Bob is a TSA
whistleblower he's TSA whistleblower and
he's a serious serious whistleblower
someone wasn't wearing their shoes right
no he this guy has sued TSA a million
times and he's won a million times
what's the story there like what's what
what did he blow the whistle on they
were lying to us about Air Marshals
being on the planes there were no Air
Marshals on the planes and then you know
those super fortified doors so you can't
get into the cockpit they were fake
there was nothing to those
doors you don't know why we're reacting
like this God wait wait wait a minute
wait a
minute please do EXP band on that he
actually designed a truly impenetrable
door got a patent on it and TSA fired
him and then when the judge ordered them
to reinstate him they put him in a
basement office with no windows and
nothing to do he played video games all
day so he sued him again and again and
again and he keeps
winning what years is this oh this is
it's ongoing he still has Suits pening
oh my God yeah Robert mlan he's an
awesome guy you should talk to him all
right we don't cut things around here we
do it honestly you have no idea why this
is happening right now so I run into Bob
hold on I got to cut you off John this
has nothing to do with you but um do you
believe this think we got to write up an
issue of yeah no I I I listen I we had a
podcast number
167 no
168 with Ashton Forbes where there was
there were a lot of different arguments
in there and ended up creating a whole
internet controversy and everything and
one of his claims about 42 minutes into
that podcast was
that quote he could get through he said
I've sat in a lot of planes before I've
seen that cockpit door I could get
through that no problem because he's an
investigator for the
MH370 disappearance oh sure and so we
had evidence that showed that these
doors were [__] plutonium and you
can't get through them and you you are
now telling me that even if they said
that was the case that's not necessarily
the truth so and not all the planes have
the good doors all right unless you pop
in here I'll say to your credit though
the thing is he didn't cite what you're
saying you know what I mean it's like
he's saying this being that oh you can
get through the door but it's like we
know for fact from what we're hearing
that the doors are impenetrable but if
he cited your Source it'd be more
compelling the fact that he didn't
that's like oh wait he's just running on
this
either either way like I pride myself on
calling it like it is including when
we're wrong so if that is the
case Ashton on that point I
apologize that's going to get clipped a
lot hey I always said I'm I'm G be
honest with you so please continue this
story that's now yeah yeah sorry about
that so I'm at the RNC and and Bob walks
up to me and he says hey how you doing I
said hey I'm okay how are you he goes
how's your day and I said oh dude I said
listen to this listen to how my day
was so I told him and he goes That's a
felony and I said you bet it's a felony
shlock you bet it's a felony he goes did
you call the FBI and I said no I don't I
don't talk to the FBI and I said B
besides what are they going to do just
kind of smile politely and and send me
on my
way so
um our buddy you know did his book
reading and and I left couple of days
later I'm at Bruce's office not for any
reason we just kind of hang out and uh
and I get a call on my cell phone and
it's from Mike Schmidt at the New York
Times And he
says a little birdie told me that Rudy
Giuliani tried to extort $2 million from
you for uh for a
pardon and I said oh that damn Rob
Mclean I
said he was a real whistle blower right
and he said he was so
angry that night that he called the
FBI and he reported it and the FBI said
an not
interested for a blatant felony uhuh so
and and I'll I'll Circle back to that in
a minute so Rob is like screw the FBI
then I'm calling the New York Times
that's the next best thing and and Mike
Schmid's a two-time pullets Prize winner
he's a serious guy he's a front page guy
so I told him the story and um he said
you willing to go on the record and I
said Bruce am I willing to go on the
record and he said hell yeah go on the
record Giuliani needs to take
responsibility for what he did so front
page of the Sunday New York Times is you
know Rudy Giuliani tried to extort $2
million for me so Giuliani they call him
for a comment he says I have no idea who
this guy is never met him before and I
said Mike Mike Schmidt called me back
and I said that's funny then he doesn't
remember us posing for a picture
together oh no so I sent it to him uhhuh
and so in the article it says you know
Giuliani denied ever meeting me never
heard of me and then it says the New
York Times has seen evidence that the
meeting took
place yeah and they didn't publish the
picture I don't remember if they did or
not they may have I don't remember so
interesting though like they were that
blatant about it that's just it was
ridiculous look at that
Giuliani so
uh so months pass
and it just kind of that story goes away
but anyway this this lobbyist that I had
hired said forget Giuliani I got you in
with Sebastian Gorka oh and I was like I
I don't like that dude at all I don't
like him at all he wears his father's
Nazi party lapel pin like he's not a
he's not a Neo-Nazi he's an actual
Nazi the the lapel thing is that blows
my mind and you know why he didn't last
at the National Security Council cuz he
couldn't get an FBI because he couldn't
get a little FBI clearance and I'm want
to slap that accent right out of him too
I hate that accent you think the
accent's real no you don't think so he
probably talks like this he probably
does President Trump has never made a
mistake in his life ever ever not once I
am the only non-trump family member to
be followed on Twitter by the
president which is why I went to see him
so my lobbyist says Sebastian gorka's
got a book coming out there's a big
party at the Trump Hotel and we're going
to get him we're going to pigeon hole
him for 5 minutes bring your checkbook
she says and I go oh so that's how it's
going to be huh oh to Sebastian too so I
said you know what I'm a big boy I've
been in Washington for more than 40
years I'll bring my checkbook so I said
how much is he going to ask me for she
says he's going to ask you for 1,500
bucks and I said what do I get for my
1500 bucks and she said he's going to
Tweet at the president pardon John
kiraku it's a cheap date yeah I said all
right I'll spend 1,500 bucks on that
okay but I'm not buying his book
Nazi so I go to the Trump and
everybody's there like every Republican
member of Congress and Don Jr and Tucker
Carlson everybody's there so she takes
me up to see Gorka and he says
sir you're the man who wants me to tweet
at the president and I said if you're so
inclined and he says give me
$5,000 and I said seriously he goes give
me
$5,000 and I said you know I've been
around for a long time and I understand
the nature of Washington but I'm not
going to let you shake me down like I'm
some two bit guy off the street I go
[__] you I turned around and walked out
and she's
like that was just his opening price he
would have gone down to, 1500 and I said
[__] him I'm not doing this I said these
guys are all criminals I'm not doing
this so I
walked time passes and have you heard of
Noel duny I don't believe I have she was
an aid to Rudy Giuliani and he tried to
get in her pants and he
yeah and she went to the New York Times
with her story he tried to get me in bed
he he sexually harassed me sexually
abused me he did this he did that and
and
she she's she's very very bright but
most importantly she's she's bright all
right most importantly from my
perspective is that Giuliani went back
to New York after our meeting and he
said uh I tried to get $2 million out of
this guy for a pardon today and she kept
that to herself until Giuliani put the
moves on her and then she called The New
York Times and said said everything John
kiraku said was
true that he had confessed to her that
night oh my God he tried to shake me
down for $2 million all the years this
guy's been around and he's still dumb
enough to get trapped by some by a nice
red dress yep look at the title this
yeah could you honestly could you
imag Rudy juliani demanded oral sex
while on the phone to Trump could you
imagine just scroll down so we can see
that picture hold on could like like
from a female perspective could you you
can't give me all the money in the world
to touch that no sorry not a chance not
a chance he's disgusting she alsoa can't
get it up either that wouldn't surprise
me at all it says there she also claimed
he went on alcohol Dr
rants yeah yeah if the guy's Wasted by
two in the afternoon then yeah sure I
could see his alcohol drenched rants
unbelievable that like that's the case
yeah his when he when his wife divorced
him she like put in the papers like
can't get it up like as part of the
reason you know
those she or somebody close to her
leaked those papers to the New York
Times and some of the things that were
in them were revelatory for example he
is a member of 16 country
clubs can you imagine he spends
$110,000 a month on cigars on cigars you
didn't get him for free have a guy in
Cuba see and he can't stop him self from
defaming people and now he's lost
everything yeah he really is just a
caricature man I I told you I was going
to circle back around to something yeah
um this is not a appropo of anything
that we've talked about so far but in
2020 I was offered a job the job of a
lifetime being the Chief Operating
Officer of a small investment company
and so I accepted it it was split time
between Washington and Athens and so I'm
so excited I'm meeting with important
people and I'm 6 weeks into it and I
realize these guys are committing bank
fraud and money laundering and so I
downloaded 15,000 pages of documents
onto a thumb drive and I
resigned and I went to the
FBI I said I have evidence of a massive
fraud about $150 Million worth I've got
all the
documents and I need to talk to an ENT
not
interested so I said to Bruce what do I
do here he said I'm going to call this
friend a mutual friend of both of ours
who used to be the deputy director of
the about Bruce Fine the lawyer y so we
call this friend and he says I'll get
you into the Washington field office so
he gets us an appointment with this FBI
agent and you know my position on
talking to the FBI right not a fan I'm
not a fan but this was important enough
to me that I needed to swallow my pride
so I go into the FBI with Bruce this is
before you're arrested right no no this
is this is uh
2022 oh this is I I misheard that I
thought you were saying 2012 I'm
thinking this is right before they're
going to arrest you no this 2022 recent
got it so we go to see this guy oh Bruce
is calling me right now there you go
answer it yeah let's say hello shout out
to Bruce we're on air hey Bruce how are
you tell him we're on air he's got we're
on the we're on the air right now and I
am just talking about you and your name
just now came out of my mouth when you
called All Good Things Bruce All Good
Things oh I think something's I'm just
going to commentate here because I can
hear it a little bit I think something
good is happening oh you've made my day
I think there's a Parton in the future
day that Uncle Joe's going to wake up
for
Johnny he's going to wake up rise up and
pardon oh Bruce man thank you thank you
thank you that's exactly what I was
hoping to
hear fantastic I'll call you from uh
from the
road all right thanks Bruce bye-bye so
Giuliani accepted your 2 million no
listen my my I I have a reputation for
being a litigious prick because I've
realized that nobody's going to give you
justice you have to seize your own
Justice and so I sue everybody good for
you and that was one of my suits it's
going forward oh good so that wasn't the
pardon no no no that's ongoing process
okay so um so I go to the Washington
field office with my thumb drive with
15,000 pages of documents and I said
well you know I was hired to be the COO
of this Investment Company and and the
guy goes who whoa wait wait wait wait
wait one second he goes I'm going to
save you a little bit of time if this
doesn't have the words terrorism Russia
China or January attached to it we're
not interested oh my God and that was
the end of the
meeting that's the
FBI yeah so one one of my good friends
is this guy Jim diorio who's been on the
podcast between like co-hosting me and
everything like 11 or 12 times now but
Jim was he was a West pointer 86 went
into the Special Forces for eight years
his roommates at West Point were Mike
Pompeo and Mark es wow and he was a he
while in the forces he one of his things
was he was an undercover guy which is
like yeah a very big deal the best of
the best like they're not going in there
to capture you know going in there to
take care business so he gets out he
gets offers for he's the most connected
guy I've ever seen at all agencies he
gets offers from everyone he decides to
go to the FBI 25 years in the FBI 20 25
years 11 on and off undercover some deep
cover [__] wow and then his he was a
major Casemaker but his other specialty
was he was an international interrogator
and I know this is one thing you've
actually spoken highly of with the the
FBI they are really good at
interrogations right so he he was one of
the guys who would be called in around
the world for some of these things like
Ali sufan was right to do that and you
know when he talks about leaving the FBI
in 2018 and and like he is brutally
honest about the FBI now I mean the
first podcast we ever did like I
couldn't even get him to do it for like
10 months he was like so nervous to do
it and two hours in he's like yeah [__]
Jim Comey as a staff record label and as
a mother [__] like he was just going
off good for him but he it's an outlaw
organization well he Tau I I don't know
that he goes that far but what he is
saying is that you know there is it's
not about I'm putting some words in his
mouth right now but this is essentially
what he's saying it's not about Justice
anymore so much as it is about what is
the headline for and that is exactly the
example you just gave right there in
practice which is really a shame to see
because like it or not it's supposed to
be like our top police unit in the
country and and it feels like whatever
if there was any kind of culture there
that some of it was good and I know
there's people out there who would say
it was never good maybe that's right but
you know that that doesn't that appears
to be really lacking today I couldn't
agree more and there's something to what
you just said you look back at things
like uh co-intel Pro right uh in the'
60s into the 70s can you tell people
what that was coel Pro was Counter
Intelligence program this was was a
program um that the FBI came up with in
the 60s to spy on uh anti-war activists
peace activists and black liberation
groups it with the black liberation
groups especially um the Black Panthers
uh they got violent and actually killed
people in Cold Blood like Fred Hampton
for example Fred Hampton was executed in
Cold Blood by the FBI because jedar
Hoover the FBI founder and director
feared what he called uh the black
Messiah right he was that's you know
thus the the title of the movie recently
um he was afraid that that there would
be one black figure that could unite
black people in America and would make
them a formidable force that the FBI
would lose control of yeah Martin Luther
King was killed so he was no problem uh
Malcolm X oh and there are still very
important unanswered questions Malcolm X
was killed so he wasn't a problem Fred
Hampton was doing dangerous things like
opening food banks and you know
proposing job training programs and
other subversive actions and so they
just executed the
guy you ever hear the Jay-Z lyric about
that no I was born on the day Fred Hamp
to die real bleeps just
multi I was like that's some Poetic
Justice right there right it is indeed
every time I hear that I'm like that's a
bar that's bar yeah I like it but anyway
going going back to some stuff like you
you've previewed a lot of stuff we we
got to talk about today with with with
your story so I'm trying to keep you
know make sure we get some of this
linear and and go back with it so if
there's some things people have heard
that you're like oh I want to hear more
about that we we will get there
especially like your case and the
craziness that happened there but you
know those eight years from like 88 is
or ' 89 to 96 97 when you're working on
the Persian goal specifically Iraq at
some point the year analyst and you go
to places as you said as John kiraku but
at some point you get pulled into the
directorate of operations which is the
National Clandestine Service to now
officially be a spy right before we get
there you had said I think it was like
four months into your career you went to
the farm yeah okay so this is this is in
that that nine months buildup to the war
you go to the farm how long did you go
to the farm for uh the original training
was six weeks best of my recollection
but then I went for like very specific
operational training in
98 okay so let's stay with the farm for
one second yeah in those six weeks did
you get the reason I was bringing it up
is did you get like real spy background
there no none of it okay it was all
about writing for the president six
weeks of writing and writing and more
writing to make sure one of the things
that the CIA is actually pretty good at
is you know you've got thousands of
analysts and every every day you're
writing the president's Daily Brief it's
briefed him at 7:00 in the morning and
no matter which one of the thousands of
analysts writes a piece it has to sound
like it's all coming from one person so
there's a very specific CIA writing
style in fact when I wrote my first book
I gave it to my wife to read the first
draft and she came back and she Saidi
hate it is this wife too a wife too and
I said I go really and she said honey I
have listened to you tell these stories
a thousand times and this reads like a
dry government report she said you have
to start back at the beginning and write
the way you talk yes and I completely
changed my writing style I can switch
back and forth now but it's like writing
like a lawyer versus wrri exactly same
thing
MH yeah so it was all about writing
those six weeks then when I switched to
operations in 90
seven what precipitated that I was Bor
stiff it was clear that Saddam Hussein
was not going anywhere under the Clinton
Administration and every day I'll tell
you exactly what it what it did there
was one there was one precipitating
event that made me say either switch to
operations or
resign I got assigned to write a
National Intelligence estimate an ni now
this is the most important document that
the intelligence Community uh produces
and it is it is the position of the
entire intelligence Community all
whatever it is 19 intelligence
organizations in the American government
so the National Intelligence officer
said to me I want you to write this
paper and I want it to be called Iraq
colon Saddam Hussein's next 12 months
and I said okay so I wrote it I said
Saddam could threaten the CDs he could
threaten the Shia he could threaten
Kuwait big deal right I might as well
have just taken the previous one and
change the date on it
so we he calls together representatives
of all of the intelligence Services
right we're talking about the defense
Intelligence Agency State Department
Bureau of intelligence and research um
Commerce Department uh the Pentagon you
know the the uniform services Army
intelligence Navy Air Force everybody
everybody gets a vote so we're all
sitting around the table I'm in the
middle with the with the nio the
National Intelligence officer and you go
literally sentence by sentence so these
things can take weeks like okay the
first sentence
is the purpose of this paper is to
examine Saddam Hussein's actions
potential actions over the next 12
months Dia do you agree with that INR do
you agree with that Army Navy Air Force
Coast Guard everybody agree with that
Coast Guard yeah seriously everybody's a
Commerce Department like they know
anything and then you go to the second
sentence we finished this paper in four
hours and the nio says to me that was
the fastest coordination session I have
ever gone through in my career and I
said Ben I'm ashamed of this paper
it says nothing new it's the same paper
as it is every single
year right nothing ever
changes Ian and the thing is is if
you're asked to write an ni you're
getting promoted this is a very big deal
he goes no you know this is a policy
problem it's not an intelligence problem
you did what you were expected to do and
I
said I'm going to either quit or change
to operations cuz I am bored to
tears and then it just so happened that
this job opened up in the
counterterrorism center and they were
looking for an operations officer who
and it at the end it says um either
Greek or Arabic strongly desired oh and
I was like hey it's like they're talking
to you and as it turned out I was the
only person in the entire CIA who spoke
both Greek and
Arabic
so I applied and I went down to the
counterterrorism center and I sought out
the officer who had listed it he was a
big shot you said this is like
976 very late 97 okay and I said I don't
know the first thing about operations
but I speak Greek and Arabic fluently
and he's like are you kidding me and I
said no and he said are you willing to
be tested and I said 'oh of course I
said actually I just was tested in
Arabic a couple of weeks ago but I'll
I'll take whatever test you want me to
take and it turned out is Not only was
his secretary Greek like Greek Greek
naturalized American she was from
roads so she comes out and she starts
speaking to me in Greek tenant worst
nightmare yeah and I'm answering her in
Greek and she says he gets the thumbs up
from me like that and he's like he said
to me it is a lot easier and a lot
cheaper to take a linguist and teach him
operations than it is to take an
operations officer and teach him how to
speak Greek and Arabic yeah they're hard
languages too hard languages both
langues and they have nothing in common
yeah and so I got the job and uh and
they sent me to the farm for the real
training I was going to say so you've
never at this point like you've learned
to think the way they think culturally
at Langley you know I'm sure there's a
lot of discretion and maybe some natural
good healthy paranoia you have in life
because of who you are but you've never
had to be the dude walking in jeans and
a flannel through the streets tracking
another dude you know end up being good
at it oh yeah I've I've heard but like
but like was there a part of you right
when they said all right you're in where
you're like oh [__] this is a whole new
no I was so into it I was so into it
disguises and dead drops and brush
passes and it was just all the stuff you
see in the movies you know you know in
the James Bond movies there's always
always always a scene where James runs
into the CIA guy right yeah because that
happens every
time like you go to a dinner party and
you hear hello John you're like [__]
[__] hello Nigel
stay away from the shake
Nigel he's
mine like every time yeah so anyway I go
down there and
um I did not have to take you just
alluded to something that's important I
did not have to take what is
colloquially known as CIA 101 right I
was already midcareer I know how the CIA
works I know what the offices do I know
what the different job you know
descriptions are so I didn't need any of
that stuff where they take you you spend
six weeks in this office then you do six
weeks in that office and six weeks in
disguises and six weeks in lockpicking I
didn't have to do any of that stuff so
so we went straight into the you know
shooting wait you didn't have to do like
lockpicking and disguises and stuff like
that no cuz they were introductory like
if you're just hired out of high school
or not high school out a grad school you
know about that I don't need to know
about it I all you need to know is that
it exists okay and so if you need
somebody to pick a lock you send a cable
they're there the next day they pick
your lock enough yeah so
um my first day the the course is called
crash in bang right because you crash
cars and shoot stuff and
so my first day we're sitting there it's
like a dozen of us and the instructor
says okay let's start he says I got to
ask who here does not own a gun and I
put my hand up God damn it John I know
and I look around and I'm the only guy
with H my hand up and he says you don't
own a gun and I go truth be told I've
never actually touched a real
gun like who the [__] let this guy in
the guy goes oh
[__] he's like all right he goes
everybody else go pick a gun you come
with me you get the wooden one I did I
got the wooden
one but only for the first day the
wooden one with the orange
tip they gave you that in a
whistle at least I made a bulge under my
shirt oh my God so he's like look you
know you got to learn the parts of the
gun and I had to take the gun apart and
put it back together again it was a
Browning a Browning 9mm okay um which
ended up hurting me because the Browning
for whatever reason has a the the hammer
has a big kick and it it me here so I
was bleeding all over the gun did you
report the cut sir this cut me I didn't
say anything cuz I wanted didn't want to
be a dick to everybody but there's a
medic of course on site all the time
he's like oh your buddy you're bleeding
I was like Yeah The Hammer keeps hitting
me so he wraps my hand up and they're
like okay you can't use a Browning
anymore so I I got a desert
eagle yeah don't touch your vagina next
time that's
right it turned out I ended up um not
just testing first in the shooting
um but one of my instructors pulled me
aside afterwards and he said have you
ever shot competitively and I said no
these guys were ragging on me because I
I'm was the only one that you know never
used a gun before and he says you could
shoot competitively like ski and so I
did wow and and then I ended up doing
well so you were a natural I was a
natural I have very steady hands yeah
did you have glasses back then too no I
I only got the glasses in my 40s okay so
good eyesight steady hands yeah it's
always the people who least want it that
get the most of it isn't that the truth
yeah so uh you know we we we certified
in the in the 38 the 9mm the pump action
gauge uh and then we played around with
rocket launchers and 50 cows and oh you
got to play with rocket launchers you
doing this in the fields in
Virginia yeah just chilling wow those
are
nasty and then did something that was
really cool you've probably seen it on
TV you go into the shooting gallery the
shooting house so you're you're walking
the your instructor's right behind you
with his hand on your shoulder and
you're using live ammo and you know
somebody pops up in the window and it
could be a guy with an Uzi or it could
be a woman holding a baby and you have
less than a second to decide whether to
shoot or not oh boy yeah so I go through
the shooting gallery and you got to have
the gun down and you're like bang bang
bang bang right always the double
tap I ended up getting a 97 the reason
why I didn't get a 100 is cuz one guy I
hit him in the throat and the shoulder
instead of the throat and the chest okay
but if you only have half of a second to
get the two shots off you know I
declared Victory and went home yeah um
there was7 was a good score 97 was
good um nobody else got that high and
then you you use live ammo too out in
the field where
you use a car you're in a
car and
um and they shut the engine off remotely
right and then somebody takes a shot at
you so you have to unbuckle your seat
belt roll across the the seat get out
the passenger's side lay on the ground
try to see where the shots coming from
and then you have to shoot back well
it's a robot that's shooting
you I couldn't get a clear shot at the
robot so I put my head up a little I
shot out my own windows and then I shot
the robot and I I succeeded I scored 100
the instructor's like damn it
karako that was my last decent
car shot the windows out I said you told
me I I got to shoot the robot I couldn't
get a clean shot because you disabled my
engine [__] the windows Bill I know
right but man that was fun fun fun and
then you have to crash through
roadblocks they they teach you the
proper way to do that there there is
most definitely a wrong way to do it
what's the wrong way to do it it depends
on how the road block is set up if it's
set up in a V which is the most
difficult to get through always hit the
light side of the car don't hit where
the engine is right you got to hit where
the trunk is and the car will fly out of
your way but if it's in a V
even if if it's the the backs of the
cars forming the V the V will it's like
a it's like a wedge where it'll it'll
strengthen on its own so you have to hit
the engine it it makes it more
difficult and then we did
um wow um surveillance yeah did they
drop you in a city and do that whole
thing like for real I'll tell you one
funny thing yeah it was only thing that
I distinctly um uh did not enjoy was um
parachuting right so this is well before
911 and um I said to one of the guys why
do we have to do why do we have to jump
out of planes I don't want to jump out
of a plane I'm going to be making my
recruits my recruitments at diplomatic
cocktail parties right like I'm offended
they're wasting my time here I could be
do something doing something uh you know
productive after 911 I'm sitting in the
back of a C12 and the back opens up and
I said to this guy next to me I can't
[__] believe I'm G jump out
of listen can't say they're not prepared
so they're teaching you every bit of
spycraft and then they flew us out to
the desert out west and we did Advanced
counterterrorist driving what does that
mean uh mostly sandunes oh so so they're
preparing you for the hills of
Afghanistan yeah and then I actually
flew back from Athens to um to do a
class called uh Advanced
counterterrorism operations that was
that was deep yeah when you say deep is
that like you're putting masks on and
learn how to do all that too no we did
that in the original training how good
were the masks back then in absolutely
absolutely first class Jon Manz in
charge of that at the time she's a
genius yeah she tells a story that cuz
she went way back with HW Bush she knew
him from the early days yes and she went
and gave a briefing to him when he was
president at this point in a full mask
and suit and he had no idea it was her
and this is like 1990 she made a mask
for me it was a bald head with a comb
over right and a mustache and and really
thick glasses so the only seam was right
here on the bridge of my nose right and
the glasses covered it up so they
shipped it out to to me and I put it on
and my chief said that is the best
disguise I have ever seen and I said
they told me it was the first time they
had ever done a bald head with a comb
over and he says we got to go to the
Ambassador so we go to the Ambassador it
was uh it was Nick Burns who's now the
ambassador to
China we go in he says Mr Ambassador I
have an expert uh who's visiting from
Washington I wanted to introduce him and
I said how do you do Mr Ambassador he
says well welcome to Athens
nice to meet you who are you here to see
and I started making something up and
then my boss started laughing and then I
started laughing and he said what am I
missing and I went like this and I
pulled it off and he's like oh my God
and I said pretty good right and he's
like that's the best disguise I've ever
seen this is in the 90s in the '90s I
have no idea what they're like now now
you're wearing them right so you go put
it on alone in your room or whatever you
know you're wearing it cuz you're the
[__] person wearing it when you
naturally that means you're you you're
biased to see flaws when you looked in
the mirror did you were you like I don't
know or were you like holy [__] that's a
great question and it's not unique to my
disguise but to all disguises one thing
that never feels natural is the mustache
cuz you use glue it's all real hair
right and it's it's on mesh so you can't
can't see the mesh it looks like a real
mustache but if I have a real mustache
it moves naturally with my face a glute
on one doesn't it looks stiff when you
watch TV shows and people are wearing
fake mustaches you can tell that they're
fake that's right because their upper
lip doesn't move
naturally you have to careful now how do
you work against that do you just like
try to not say anything in front of your
yeah and you can't smile broadly because
the glue will come will attach you know
like it's it's pliable enough to move as
you're speaking but if you smile it
stretches too much and the the mustache
will start to come
off you got to be careful what is it
made out of are you allowed to say that
real human hair no no no not the
mustache the suit like what what I don't
even know rubber you know it was just
like like a rubber M it was it was finer
than what you would buy at a costume
store
yeah does it like adhes to your body no
no so it's not going to move at all like
someone hit nope nope I recruited this
one guy Jes and I sent him out to a town
in the western part of the country yeah
that's going to be we'll be whatever
excellent yeah um I I recruited this guy
and uh and we weren't really sure if he
was dangerous was he a dangle a plant we
weren't sure and he had only known me as
the Baldhead combover guy oh my God and
so I looked 20 years younger in real
life than what this disguise made me
look like and
um I told him to meet me you know at at
an intersection in this town and um and
I walked past him like walking toward
him so he looked me right in the eye and
um didn't register at all no idea I went
back to the hotel I put the disguise on
I came out and got him I just wanted to
make sure that there was nobody around
him he wasn't carrying a gun he had no
idea now when you put it on though your
eyes are still your eyes right yeah your
eyes are still your eyes although you
can use you can use um contact contacts
and some cases colored contacts I've got
this I've got this thing this aging
thing it's called Arcus cilis where my
eyes are starting to turn blue around
the edges it's just a a function of
Aging my grandfather had it so if I were
in the CI today I would have to wear
brown
contacts because otherwise if I'm close
enough you know that we're looking at
each other and having a conversation you
can see the blue right and that would be
a giveaway so you got to be careful
about it so is it just your head with it
pretty much they don't have like the
hands you can do a belly you can do
hands and what's that it does that look
like real skin well it's under the shirt
I know but like if someone told you take
your shirt off they and they'll match
they'll match the color of the of the
prosthetic to your skin so the
prosthetic of the com over matched your
skin oh there was a woman who came out
she was an artist and she spent days
matching the prosthetic to my skin color
it was so you didn't have to wear it
here or anything like that no it was
perfect mhm what does it feel like if
it's just on the head it feels very
natural how th but it is it like if it's
thick it could make your head look so
big so like how it's is it really thin
oh no it's very very thin yeah very thin
yeah so it looks natural mhm it really
does it's getting scary out here yeah
it's good and you know this is becoming
more and more important in the age of uh
facial recognition software if you're
undercover or Worse you're under Deep
Cover or you're you're traveling in
Alias and you have to cross borders go
through airports
I mean how do you do that if facial
recognition software is scanning you can
it scan your eyes though that's the
thing like the eyes be the giveaway
that's going to be a problem even with
contact lenses I feel like like the sh
it'll be able to get the shaping of the
pupils and everything I I would be
worried about that if I were still at
the
SE all right so you get you learn to
shoot you learn to use rocket launchers
you learn to jump out of planes they
drop oh we we got off this they drop you
in a city I've had guys like Joe tedi
and Shan Ryan in here who work with CIA
ground branch and GRS like they talk
about that and Andy's talked about it
where they drop in DC or something were
you right in DC doing it uh yeah almost
all of it was in DC I had to fly out to
San Diego at one point and got on a sub
and um we went up to the uh Oregon coast
oh like a submarine a submarine yeah we
went up to the Oregon coast and we were
they took me you know whatever it was a
half a mile a quarter mile off the coast
and they they Rose and I got into a
little dingy and I had to row myself to
shore you stab the dinghy you bury it in
the sand you pick up the message that's
hidden in the bottle and then that's
your instructions for the next thing
[__] Tom Hanks ey here it was hard
[__] it was hard when you went when you
were doing the drills though in DC is it
the like the way the other guys have
described is they'll be like all right
you have to steal a shirt from the store
and not get caught and stuff like that
or you've got to get onto into an
apartment on the 10th floor of this
office build or of this uh apartment
building and come out onto the balcony
and Signal us how' you do that um I
bought a clipboard and I bought a shirt
and put a little name tag and I told the
woman that I was a maintenance inspector
you didn't get a ladder too I told the
woman I was a maintenance inspector and
I needed to check on the uh on the
condition of her of her balcony so I
went out there with my clipboard I
pretended to uh write something gave the
guys the thumbs up and pass the uh the
exercise that guy told you about Jim
diorio has a great quote called
politeness and familiarity breeds access
amen and so he he tells a story about
like he he's out of his [__] mind but
like he's done some he works with Boost
Deonte now put that in perspective but
he was like right after he retired from
the FBI he was taking these crazy
contracts and so one of his guys who was
like the CEO of a [__] fortune like
50 company
told him that his security for his
company at their headquarters was
phenomenal and Jim's like the [__] it is
and he's like no no it's phenomenal and
Jim's like so I could test it he's like
oh yeah you'll never you'll never be
able to to get in there maybe we can
splice in the gim story here but I'll
tell John while while we're in here but
he so Jim go goes to the [__]
Starbucks outside the outside the
headquarters he's like loading his gun
making sure it's unloaded like outside
the Starbucks people are looking at him
he's like all right get in the game mode
walks in the front door like literally
goes to the front desk he goes oh oh
well yeah yeah I'm I'm I'm going to see
so and so on the third floor like yeah
yeah okay go ahead gets up to the third
floor goes up to the front desk has I
think he had Donuts or something and he
goes ah yeah sorry I'm late with these I
was supposed to bring them yesterday but
he he's in right oh yeah yeah he's in
yeah should be five minutes walks in
there sits down at the desk or walks in
there the CEO sitting down at the desk
goes through the door holds up the gun
to his head and says you're dead we need
to talk it was that easy oh my God that
is brilliant like two steps that's
brilliant crazy but like you know you
you guys have to learn how to do that
common sense at CIA I've said in other
podcasts I was always the good cop when
I was in operations always and I found
success to be far easier than it was for
the guys who were the bad
cop yeah yeah I I I could see that
because like you the way you strike me
and I've listened to you for years now
because of Danny show and you know I I
just think the way you break down like
geopolitics and stuff is so good but
like you have this air of obviously like
you're very friendly so that that's
disarming but you give off this air
that's completely untrue that's an
incredible tool which is you give off an
air of complete
aloofness I don't know if you know this
I mean maybe you I never really thought
about it yeah you you walk in like the
guy like oh yeah this place is great wow
how long have you been doing this like
you don't know a [__] thing that's
going on no but you've already charted
out the whole place and you're ready to
Slit the throat of the family member of
the guy sitting across from you and feed
it to him sometimes you have to do
things I I'll give you an example I'm
going to skip way ahead skip way ahead
so I get to prison right and the judge
had had ordered that I be sent to a
minimum security Work Camp no bars on
the Windows no locked doors you free to
just come and go as you please you're on
your honor not to abscond and they put
me in the actual prison right the agency
just the the victim my Victim objected
right so
um so I said well I gotta I gotta
protect myself here but I'm trained to
do this
so I had we can come back to this but
there was one incident where where the
uh the arens just weren't quite sure
what to make of me and so somehow this
rumor got started Ed that I was an
assassin for the
CIA and I thought I'm going to go with
it so one of the Aran uh stops me in the
yard and he goes is it true you were an
assassin with the CIA and I go hey we
all did stuff that we weren't proud of
it was
wartime and that was it from the Aryans
they're like oh you can sit with us at
our table I like okay until the the
Italian said why you sit with those Nazi
oh sorry yeah no you're good keep going
and U and so I was with the Italians
after that but you know you just got to
go with it yeah yeah like you're very it
it it's a psychological power for sure
that's why it's so fascinating to listen
to because I can see like guys like you
what's what's Jim Lawler's line he's
like I have to make people trust me to
be turn become a traitor for their
country exact exactly I say all the time
what makes this job so hard is you have
to convince people that you are their
best friend to the point where they love
you so much they're willing to commit
Espionage for you that's right or in
some cases they're willing to commit
treason for you just because they love
you what's the difference Espionage and
treason I mean when you're talking to
guys in foreign countries it's I mean
it's pretty much always going to be that
right yeah Espionage is you know
providing secrets that's not treason
treason is providing Aid and comfort to
the enemy how's so if I if I recruit a
guy from you know Mexico to give me
information on the Corn
Harvest which might be important to the
Department of Agriculture in some way
that's not treason it's Espionage most
definitely but treason is if I convince
a Russian or Chinese a Cuban a North
Korean you know an Iranian
okay they're going to hang for that all
right so there's a small distinction
yeah I got you yeah I mean there like
like we were talking about earlier with
the
psychological tools I could I could see
where they see that in you cuz like
you're you're like happy to be about the
action but you are make no mistake about
it beneath there is a very serious guy
like you you understand implic you're
not there's no real aloofness to you you
know exactly what you're dealing with
you just know kind of have a a soft
exterior for people so that they can
kind of be taken in by that and I think
that's why I was successful yeah yeah
like I remember a guy I had recruited a
guy he was in dire Financial Straits and
something happened in his life I don't
remember what it was but he he triggered
a meeting which was highly unusual and I
go to the meeting and
um and he's got a he's got a shopping
bag it has all of his wife's jewelry in
it and he said can you give me
$5,000 for this jewelry and I go what am
I [__] Jeweler like
seriously that's what I told him like
what do you want me to
do I was watching on the plane yesterday
I was watching Good Fellas you remember
the scene where where um where Polly is
uh well uh Joe pesy Tommy he's just done
the what I make you laugh scene and he
smashed the bottle over the owner's head
and the owner goes to pulie and says
come on you got to come in come in uh on
the business take a piece to the
restaurant and Paulie's chomping on his
cigar he like what what the [__] do I
know I what do I know I know how to go
in the restaurant and order the meal
that's all I don't know anything about
the restaurant business so what you want
me to take a piece of this restaurant
it's the same situation yeah you go in
I'm like what the [__] do I know okay
you want listen keep your jewelry keep
your jewelry what I need from you is I
need two hours in your embassy's code
room how about that do that yeah I'd
rather have that than your wife's
jewelry they should make that a Visa
commercial Priceless yeah that's it
right we good we happy right let's have
a drink yeah so you so you get pulled
the you're doing all this training in
like 97 how long was the was the now spy
training that first time not the not
when you came back it
was like eight months nine months okay
so you're in there down and dirty are
you your second wife was in CIA right
yeah yeah she was a senior Cia officer
okay are you with her at this point or
is that uh no I went to Athens with my
first wife and then we split up at the
end of the Athens tour now was it was it
hard being married to someone who you
really couldn't tell anything oh my God
it was awful it was awful especially in
Athens I mean I was doing dangerous [__]
in Athens
and yeah I remember my my son my son my
oldest son was like six at the time and
I had seven cell phones right I kept
them in in a we had a rather large house
so I used one room as a den and I kept
that door locked but he saw when I went
in one time I have seven cell phones and
he said why do you have seven cell
phones and I said there are a lot of
people that need to call
me yeah what are you g to say to a
six-year-old and then he says why do you
carry a
gun and I said well I have a dangerous
job at the embassy and he said Mikey's
dad works at the embassy and he doesn't
have a gun and I said well I'm a
detective at the agency I I mean at the
embassy and that was yeah I've done that
more than once and uh that that was
acceptable to a six-year-old but then
you know I'd get a call at
11: and you know he says uh the rain in
Spain falls mainly in the plane and I
say marid do and doy does and little
lambsy Dy which means meet me in 3 hours
at the Marriott coffee shop and so I
split and my wife's like where are you
going I got to work now my first wife
was a ballet teacher she didn't know
anything about the CIA was she Greek yes
so she spoke Greek yes so she wasn't
miserable living in Greece no no she
loved it okay so I start a three-hour
surveillance detection route I go to the
meeting spot we do whatever it is we're
going to do I do another two hours to go
back I get home 6:00 in the morning just
in time to take a shower and shave and
go to
work right and she's waiting she's like
so what was her
name she knows your CIA though but she
can't wrap her brain around what it is
I'm doing in the middle of the night
that I can't do in the middle of the day
right and I said one time I have been
sitting in a garbage dumpster for 2
hours waiting for somebody to throw a
bag of documents at me do I smell like
I've been with a woman
seriously and if I was going to be with
a woman you think I would have her call
home to trigger a meeting in the middle
of the
night I said you have to understand what
I do for a living and she just could not
accept it and so she
left that's hard yeah High divorce
rating jobs like that the highest
divorce rate of any governmental
entity yeah it's interesting though that
like she knew like because I've heard
other stories I think maybe I'm
misremembering this but where people say
work at the state department and their
CIA and their spouse doesn't know MH and
like that I can see but like when the
spouse knows like I've never been in the
CIA and and maybe I hear a lot more
stories let's say I didn't do a podcast
but I know what the CIA is I know
they're [__] spies I know shit's
crazy like
you know it's hard to put yourself in
those shoes but like I feel like some of
that I would understand it wouldn't make
the lifestyle easier though because your
hours understand it you're not on the
clock I'll give you another example um I
was winding up my tour in
Pakistan and I was dating the woman who
would become my second wife who's in CIA
CIA senior Cia officer on the analytics
side
so we had been making plans to go
on vacation to Santa Fe i' had never
been to Santa Fe New Mexico right
everybody says it's so beautiful great
art scene good food we're going to go to
Santa Fe and after Pakistan I needed to
decompress
so we're coming up to my very last
day and I get a cable like five hours
before I'm going to leave saying don't
come home go to this other country
there's a team waiting and you need to
break into this house and get this stuff
and I was like
[__] so I called her and I said I am so
sorry she said no no I saw the cable go
do your break-in she gets it yeah we'll
go on vacation when we can go on
vacation and I was like oh my God I I
got to marry her and I
did and then that later was an is she
with with all the other stuff but real
quick John I got to run to the bathroom
we got to get into your time in grease
working against 17n and also some other
stuff there we got to get into your time
in Pakistan you've alluded to a ton and
like 9911 what was going on you
obviously had
a I mean you were the guy running the
abuu beta capture so we we'll get into
that and then obviously what happened in
the transition of your career with CI
and all that so sounds good if this is
going to be a new episode we'll see you
for the next episode and please
subscribe
thank you guys for watching the episode
before you leave please be sure to hit
that subscribe button and smash that
like button on the video it's a huge
help and also if you're over on
Instagram be sure to follow the show at
Julian Dory podcast or also on my
personal page at Julian D Dory both
links are in the description below
finally if you'd like to catch up on our
latest episodes use the Julian Dory
podcast playlist Link in the description
below thank you